--- 59b85dbf seq5902 [enriched]
Y:1997 T:['Clinical Trial', 'Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Vitamin C supplementation does not alter the immune response to 2.5 hours of running.
ABS: This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was designed to determine the influence of vitamin C supplementation on the immune response to 2.5 hr of high-intensity running. Twelve experienced marathon runners (VO2 max 51.6 +/- 1.5 ml.kg-1.min-1, age 40.5 +/- 2.0 years) were randomized into vitamin C (1,000 mg/day for 8 days) or placebo groups. On the test day, subjects ran at 75-80% VO2 max for 2.5 hr, with five blood samples taken before and for 6 hr after. Blood samples were analyzed for cortisol and catecholamines; leukocyte subsets; interleukin-6; natural killer cell activity; lymphocyte proliferation as induced by concanavalin A, phytohemagglutinin, and pokeweed mitogen; and granulocyte phagocytosis and activated oxidative burst. Compared with placebo, vitamin C supplementation had no significant effect on the pattern of change in any of these hormonal or immune measures following 2.5 hr of intensive running.

--- be80ce92 seq5903 [enriched]
Y:2020 T:['article']
TITLE: Nutrition-Related Adverse Outcomes in Endurance Sports Competitions: A Review of Incidence and Practical Recommendations
ABS: During the last few years, the numbers of competitors in endurance and ultra-endurance sports modalities have increased significantly. This type of competition is an extreme challenge for athletes. Therefore, they have an increased the risk of developing medical and nutritional problems. The aim of the work is to estimate the incidence of nutrition-related adverse outcomes in endurance and ultra-endurance sports, considering the variables that influence them. A critical review was carried out based on the PubMed database, by means of a search strategy based on keywords separated by Boolean connectors. For all the results obtained in a period from 2008 to 2019, a series of inclusion/exclusion criteria was applied to select only the studies that fitted the objective of the present study. Results and discussion: Of the 871 publications identified, 33 met the inclusion criteria. The adverse outcomes found included exercise-associated hyponatremia (EAH), heat stroke by exertion (EHS), gastrointestinal (GI) problems, dehydration, and hypothermia; the provision of misinformation to athletes about nutrient intake and hydration during competition was identified as the main cause. Conclusions: The main adverse outcomes in endurance and ultra-endurance sports modalities are EAH, GI inconveniences, and EHS. These problems can affect the performance and health status of the athlete during and post-competition. Several nutritional guidelines have been suggested that can prevent these adver

--- bf226ed3 seq5904 [enriched]
Y:2019 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial']
TITLE: The Effects of Omega-3 and Branched-Chain Amino Acids Supplementation on Serum Apoptosis Markers Following Acute Resistance Exercise in Old Men.
ABS: The potential benefits of omega-3 fatty acids and branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) supplements on exercise-induced apoptosis are not clear. In a crossover randomized study, 11 men (age = 62.8 ± 2.2 years) performed an acute bout of resistance exercise and underwent 1-week supplementation with either 20 g of BCAA or 2,700 mg of omega-3/day. Subjects performed the same exercise after supplementation protocols. Following a 3-week washout period, subjects switched groups. Circulating levels of soluble Fas ligand (sFasL), cytochrome c, Bax, Bcl-2, and nuclear factor-kappa B were measured before and immediately after exercise sessions. sFasL, cytochrome c, and Bax increased after exercise. Simple main effect of time on sFasl was significant in control trial but not in omega-3 and BCAA trials. There were no differences in nuclear factor-kappa B and Bcl-2 between control and supplement trials. This study showed that adding omega-3 fatty acids or BCAA to the dietary regime of old men could partially attenuate resistance exercise-induced apoptosis.

--- 78856ddb seq5905 [enriched]
Y:2021 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Role of natural antioxidant after exercise in reducing malondialdehyde (MDA) levels during pregnancy.
ABS: <h4>Objective</h4>This study aimed to analyse the effect of a supplementary treatment with natural antioxidants after exercise on the MDA levels in women during the third trimester of pregnancy.<h4>Methods</h4>This experimental study from August to October 2016 at several midwife practices and community health centres (puskesmas) in Palembang, Indonesia included 24 prenatal pregnant women separated to 3 groups (n = 8); a control group, a positive control group that undertook an exercise programme, and a treatment group that underwent exercise programme and took natural antioxidants after the exercise. Guava juice containing vitamin C was used as antioxidant treatment. The MDA levels were analysed by spectrophotometry.<h4>Results</h4>The MDA levels were significantly different among the groups (p < 0.001). The LSD test confirmed a difference between serum MDA levels in the control, exercise and exercise + antioxidant groups (2.89 ± 0.53, 2.11 ± 0.31 and 1.47 ± 0.23 nmol/mL, respectively).<h4>Conclusion</h4>The MDA levels were significantly decreased after combined treatment with natural antioxidants and exercise in the third trimester of pregnancy.

--- 3191b669 seq5906 [enriched]
Y:1996 T:['Clinical Trial', 'Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Metabolic catecholamine, and endurance responses to caffeine during intense exercise.
ABS: This study examined the possible effects of caffeine ingestion on muscle metabolism and endurance during brief intense exercise. We tested 14 subjects after they ingested placebo or caffeine (6 mg/kg) with an exercise protocol in which they cycled for 2 min, rested 6 min, cycled 2 min, rested 6 min, and then cycled to voluntary exhaustion. In each exercise the intensity required the subject's maximal O2 consumption. Eight subjects had muscle and venous blood samples taken before and after each exercise period. The caffeine ingestion resulted in a significant increase in endurance (4.12 +/- 0.36 and 4.93 +/- 0.60 min for placebo and caffeine, respectively) and resulted in a significant increase in plasma epinephrine concentration throughout the protocol but not in norepinephrine concentration. During the first two exercise bouts, the power and work output were not different; blood lactate concentrations were not affected significantly by caffeine ingestion, but during the exercise bouts muscle lactate concentration was significantly increased by caffeine. The net decrease in muscle glycogen was not different between treatments at any point in the protocol, and even at the time of fatigue there was at least 50% of the original glycogen concentration remaining. the data demonstrated that caffeine ingestion can be an effective ergogenic aid for exercise that is as brief as 4-6 min. However, the mechanism is not associated with muscle glycogen sparing. It is possible that caffeine

--- 4f0f40f6 seq5907 [enriched]
Y:2011 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial']
TITLE: Effect of vitamin supplementation on lung injury and running performance in a hot, humid, and ozone-polluted environment.
ABS: In this study, the effect of vitamin C and E supplementation on lung injury and performance of runners were analyzed. Using a randomized, double-blinded, crossover design, nine runners participated in two experimental trials: a 2-week Vitamin trial (vitamin C = 500  mg/day + vitamin E = 100  IU/day) and a 2-week Placebo trial. At the end of each supplementation period the runners performed an 8-km time-trial run in a hot (31°C), humid (70% rh), and ozone-polluted (0.10  ppm O(3)) environmental chamber. Nasal lavage and blood samples were collected pre-, post-, and 6-h post-exercise to assess antioxidant status and CC16 as lung injury marker. Higher plasma (pre- and post-exercise) and nasal lavage (post-exercise) antioxidant concentration were found for the Vitamin trial. Nevertheless, this did not result in performance differences (Vitamin trial: 31:05  min; Placebo trial: 31:54  min; P = 0.075) even though significant positive correlations were found between antioxidant concentration and improvement in time to complete the run. CC16 was higher post-exercise in the Placebo trial (P < 0.01) in both plasma and nasal lavage. These findings suggest that antioxidant supplementation might help to decrease the lung injury response of runners when exercising in adverse conditions, but has little effect on performance.

--- aed8ac56 seq5908 [enriched]
Y:2001 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Effect of vitamin C on neutrophil function after high-intensity exercise.
ABS: High-intensity exercise leads to an increased risk of upper respiratory tract infections in athletes, which had been related to an exercise-induced impairment of neutrophil function. In this study, several indices of neutrophil function were analysed before and after a biathlon and the effect of oral vitamin C on neutrophil function was determined. Six athletes took 2 g vitamin C daily for 1 week prior to a biathlon and four athletes did not take any supplementation. Neutrophil phagocytosis was analysed by fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry. Cytosolic calcium kinetics were assessed fluorometrically and neutrophil bactericidal ability was assessed by fluorescence microscopy. Reactive oxygen production was analysed by flow cytometry. Catecholamines were analysed by high-performance liquid chromatography. After high-intensity exercise there were significant reductions in the number of phagocytosed Escherichia coli per neutrophil and in neutrophil bactericidal ability. There was a significant exercise-dependent increase of catecholamines. There was no difference between the two groups of athletes. These results do not support the concept that vitamin C supplementation corrects neutrophil dysfunction after strenuous exercise.

--- 7c8fbb27 seq5909 [enriched]
Y:1995 T:['Clinical Trial', 'Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Effects of multibuffer supplementation on acid-base balance and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate following repetitive anaerobic exercise.
ABS: The purpose of this investigation was to determine the effects of a 3.5-day dietary multibuffer supplement (containing predominantly inorganic phosphate, or Pi, along with bicarbonate and carnosine, i.e., PhosFuel) on repetitive (four trials separated by 2 min rest) Wingate test (WT) performances and whole blood 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG) concentrations in 10 recreationally trained road cyclists (T) and 10 normally active but untrained (UT) men. A 2-week washout period was utilized between experimental sessions. Venous blood samples were obtained via cannula once before exercise (baseline), immediately post each WT, and 3 min after the final WT (recovery). The data indicate that this supplement does not affect acid-base status with following intense anaerobic exercise and does not improve repetitive WT performance. However, the supplement does enhance post-exercise levels of 2,3-DPG and the 2,3-DPG/Hb ratio in recreationally trained cyclists while improving acute recovery of peak power in these men.

--- e7583ab2 seq5910 [enriched]
Y:1989 T:['Clinical Trial', 'Comparative Study', 'Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial']
TITLE: Effect of aerobic exercise on mouth-to-cecum transit time.
ABS: To examine the premise that exercise reduces the gastrointestinal transit time, we evaluated the effect of walking 4.5 km in an hour on mouth-to-cecum transit time. Twenty-three healthy volunteers, 9 men and 14 women, with an age range of 19-28 yr, were studied. After an overnight fast, the subjects ingested 10 g of lactulose in 150 ml of water while breath hydrogen concentrations were analyzed at 15-min intervals. On separate days, in random sequence, subjects either sat in a chair or walked on a treadmill for 60 min. Mean transit time was 55 +/- 8 min when resting and 89 +/- 4 min when exercising (p less than 0.001). In conclusion, light aerobic exercise prolonged the mouth-to-cecum transit time. On the basis of this observation, exercise as a causative factor in runner's diarrhea and its value in the management of chronic constipation may be questioned.

--- f6f0b87b seq5911 [enriched]
Y:2021 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Effect of SunGold Kiwifruit and Vitamin C Consumption on Ameliorating Exercise-Induced Stress Response in Women.
ABS: <h4>Introduction</h4>Markers of oxidative and psychological stress are elevated during high-intensity exercise. Additionally, when energy intake does not match expenditure, women who actively participate in sports and exercise are at risk of developing menstrual dysfunction, infertility, and osteoporosis. Vitamin C is known to reduce exercise-induced stress. Here, this study investigates the efficacy of consuming vitamin C from SunGold kiwifruit compared to in isolation, in ameliorating exercise-induced stress in recreationally active women.<h4>Methods and results</h4>Ten eumenorrheic women are recruited in this crossover study and attended three exercise and one rest trial. In the exercise trials, participants consumed 300 mg vitamin C from kiwifruit or drink, or have a placebo drink, followed by 30-min exercise on a cycle ergometer at 60% power. During rest visit, participants sat quietly and consumed a placebo drink. Salivary uric acid (oxidative stress) and cortisol (psychological stress) are measured before and immediately after exercise for 2 h. Both vitamin C and kiwifruit reduced exercise-induced uric acid, immediately after exercise. Vitamin C drink continued to decrease uric acid for a further 30 min and slightly attenuated exercise-induced cortisol.<h4>Conclusions</h4>Consuming liquid vitamin C prior to high-intensity cycling appears more effective than eating kiwifruit, in ameliorating exercise-induced stress in recreationally active women of reproductive age.

--- 6cf6d246 seq5912 [enriched]
Y:2000 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Circulating cytokines and hormones with immunosuppressive but neutrophil-priming potentials rise after endurance exercise in humans.
ABS: To investigate the mechanisms of exercise-induced immune perturbations, we measured promising immunomodulatory hormones and cytokines in plasma of 16 male marathon runners before and after a competitive 42.195-km race. Interleukin 1-beta (IL-1beta) and interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) concentrations remained unchanged after the marathon. The cytokines IL-12, IFN-alpha and tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) could not be detected even using highly sensitive specific immunoassays, indicating at least that overshooting responses of these cytokines had not occurred after exercise. As mechanisms for the small changes in these cytokines, we demonstrated for the first time a significant rise in concentrations of inhibitory cytokine IL-10 in addition to the immunosuppressive hormone cortisol, although concentrations of IL-4 and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) were unaffected by the race. Furthermore, concentrations of IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) and IL-6, which are negative-feedback inhibitors of cytokine production, increased by more than 100 times. As for humoral mediators of neutrophil mobilization, concentrations of growth hormone (GH), cortisol and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) increased significantly. In addition, concentrations of neutrophil-priming substances (IL-6, IL-8, G-CSF, GH and prolactin) also increased significantly and the induction of IL-8 and G-CSF with exercise was demonstrated for the first time in the present study. In contrast

--- 2991c9d8 seq5913 [enriched]
Y:2006 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial']
TITLE: Ascorbic acid supplementation does not attenuate post-exercise muscle soreness following muscle-damaging exercise but may delay the recovery process.
ABS: Exercise involving lengthening muscle actions, such as downhill running, results in delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS), which may be attributable to reactive oxygen species (ROS). Although exercise causes oxidative stress, any link between ROS and DOMS remains speculative. There is emerging evidence to suggest that ROS play an important physiological role, assisting in the recovery process and protecting the cell from future damage; however, this has not been fully established. Despite this uncertainty as to the precise role of ROS, attempts to prevent post-exercise ROS production through antioxidant intervention are still common. The study investigated the effects of ascorbic acid supplementation on ROS production and DOMS following downhill running. Subjects were assigned to two groups. The ascorbic acid group (group AA) received 1 g ascorbic acid 2 h pre-, and for 14 d post-downhill running, whilst the placebo group (Pl group) received a placebo. Blood samples were drawn pre-supplement, pre- and post-exercise, and then 1, 2, 3, 4, 7 and 14 d post-exercise for analysis of ascorbate, malonaldehyde and total glutathione. DOMS was assessed using a visual analogue scale and pressure algometry. Muscle function was assessed using isokinetic dynamometry. Plasma ascorbate was elevated throughout in group AA compared with the Pl group. Downhill running resulted in DOMS in both groups. Muscle function was impaired post-exercise in both groups, although a delayed recovery was noted 

--- ba2e072f seq5914 [enriched]
Y:2009 T:['Clinical Trial', 'Journal Article', 'Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Exercise training and dietary glycemic load may have synergistic effects on insulin resistance in older obese adults.
ABS: <h4>Background/aims</h4>The aim of this study was to assess the combined effects of exercise and dietary glycemic load on insulin resistance in older obese adults.<h4>Methods</h4>Eleven men and women (62 +/- 2 years; 97.6 +/- 4.8 kg; body mass index 33.2 +/- 2.0) participated in a 12-week supervised exercise program, 5 days/week, for about 1 h/day, at 80-85% of maximum heart rate. Dietary glycemic load was calculated from dietary intake records. Insulin resistance was determined using the euglycemic (5.0 mM) hyperinsulinemic (40 mU/m(2)/min) clamp.<h4>Results</h4>The intervention improved insulin sensitivity (2.37 +/- 0.37 to 3.28 +/- 0.52 mg/kg/min, p < 0.004), increased VO(2max) (p < 0.009), and decreased body weight (p < 0.009). Despite similar caloric intakes (1,816 +/- 128 vs. 1,610 +/- 100 kcal/day), dietary glycemic load trended towards a decrease during the study (140 +/- 10 g before, vs. 115 +/- 8 g during, p < 0.04). The change in insulin sensitivity correlated with the change in glycemic load (r = 0.84, p < 0.009). Four subjects reduced their glycemic load by 61 +/- 8%, and had significantly greater increases in insulin sensitivity (78 +/- 11 vs. 23 +/- 8%, p < 0.003), and decreases in body weight (p < 0.004) and plasma triglycerides (p < 0.04) compared to the rest of the group.<h4>Conclusion</h4>The data suggest that combining a low-glycemic diet with exercise may provide an alternative and more effective treatment for insulin resistance in older obese adults.

--- 05f94d8c seq5915 [enriched]
Y:2007 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Effect of adding exercise to a diet containing glucomannan.
ABS: The aim of this study was to examine the effect of adding a total-body exercise program to an 8-week diet supplemented with glucomannan on weight loss, body composition, blood parameters, and physical performance in overweight men and women. Sedentary men and women who were overweight (body mass index>25 kg m(-2)) (men: 18-57 years, 27.0+/-11.2 years, 177.5+/-7.6 cm, 102.4+/-14.9 kg; women: 18-52 years, 33.4+/-12.1 years, 160.6+/-4.6 cm, 79.9+/-9.3 kg) completed an 8-week diet with 3000 mg glucomannan combined with either no exercise (No-Ex) (10 men, 10 women) or a resistance and endurance exercise training program (Ex) (12 men, 10 women). The diet emphasized healthy food choices and portion size control. The exercise training consisted of 3 weekly sessions of approximately 1 hour of a nonlinear periodized total-body resistance exercise program followed by 30 minutes of endurance exercise. After the intervention, there were reductions (P<.05) in body mass (men, -2.7+/-1.4 and -3.0+/-4.0 kg; women, -2.2+/-1.5 and -3.3+/-1.5 kg; No-Ex and Ex, respectively), fat mass (men, -2.3+/-1.6 and -3.9+/-2.5 kg; women, -2.6+/-1.4 and -3.6+/-1.1 kg; No-Ex and Ex, respectively), total cholesterol (TC) (men, -17.9+/-21.5 and -18.8+/-19.4 mg dL(-1); women, -9.3+/-20.0 and -10.1+/-19.5 mg dL(-1); No-Ex and Ex, respectively), and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Exercise significantly improved high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) (No-Ex, -2.0+/-4.7 and -2.3+/-4.5 mg dL(-1) vs Ex, 4.

--- d5f8a9db seq5916 [upstream-no-abstract]
Y:2015 T:['Comment', 'Journal Article']
TITLE: Vitamin supplementation and resistance exercise-induced muscle hypertrophy: shifting the redox balance scale?

--- dbaa3a6d seq5917 [enriched]
Y:2014 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Docosahexanoic acid diet supplementation attenuates the peripheral mononuclear cell inflammatory response to exercise following LPS activation.
ABS: Exercise induces changes in circulating pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines. The aim was to investigate the effect of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) diet supplementation on the plasma cytokine levels and on the peripheral mononuclear (PBMCs) cells cytokine production after a training season or an acute bout of exercise. Fifteen male soccer players were randomly assigned to a placebo or an experimental group. The experimental group consumed an almond-based beverage enriched with DHA, whereas the placebo group consumed the same beverage without DHA. Three blood samples were taken: in basal conditions at the beginning of the nutritional intervention and after eight weeks of training season in basal and post-exercise conditions. The DHA content increased in erythrocytes after 8weeks of training and supplementation. Neither diet supplementation with DHA nor training season altered the basal plasma cytokines and growth factors. Only acute exercise significantly increased plasma IL6 in experimental and placebo groups. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) activation induced the inflammatory response in PBMCs, with a significant production rate of TNFα, IL6 and IL8 mainly after acute exercise. DHA supplementation significantly reduced the rate of TNFα and IL6 production by stimulated PBMCs. Acute exercise increased the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) protein levels in PBMCs, although the increase was only statistically significant in the placebo group. In conclusion, a training season does not induce si

--- 14a7eff8 seq5918 [enriched]
Y:2020 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Acute Effect of the Timing of Resistance Exercise and Nutrient Intake on Muscle Protein Breakdown.
ABS: <h4>Background</h4>Combining resistance exercise (RE) with nutrient intake stimulates muscle protein net balance. However, it is still unclear whether the optimal timing of nutrient intake is before or after RE, especially on muscle protein breakdown (MPB) for an augmented muscle anabolic response. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of a substantial mixed meal (i.e., nutrient- and protein-dense whole foods) before or after RE, compared with RE without a meal on the acute response of MPB in a crossover-design study.<h4>Methods</h4>Eight healthy young men performed three trials: (1) meal intake before RE (Pre), (2) meal intake after RE (Post), and (3) RE without meal intake (No). Plasma insulin and 3-methylhistidine (3-MH), an MPB marker, were measured.<h4>Results</h4>Time course change in plasma insulin level after RE was significantly higher in the Post condition than in the Pre and No conditions. The area under the curve of 3-MH concentration was significantly lower in the Post condition than in the Pre and No conditions.<h4>Conclusions</h4>These results suggest that a substantial mixed meal immediately after RE may effectively suppress MPB in the morning.

--- d0e8b88c seq5919 [enriched]
Y:2015 T:['Clinical Trial', 'Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Hydration Status and Sodium Balance of Endurance Runners Consuming Postexercise Supplements of Varying Nutrient Content.
ABS: Postexercise protein and sodium supplementation may aid recovery and rehydration. Preserved beef provides protein and contains high quantities of sodium that may alter performance related variables in runners. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of consuming a commercial beef product postexercise on sodium and water balance. A secondary objective was to characterize effects of the supplementation protocols on hydration, blood pressure, body mass, and running economy. Eight trained males (age = 22 ± 3 y, VO2max = 66.4 ± 4.2 ml·kg-1·min-1) completed three identical weeks of run training (6 run·wk-1, 45 ± 6 min·run-1, 74 ± 5% HRR). After exercise, subjects consumed either, a beef nutritional supplement (beef jerky; [B]), a standard recovery drink (SRD), or SRD+B in a randomized counterbalanced design. Hydration status was assessed via urinary biomarkers and body mass. No main effects of treatment were observed for 24 hr urine volume (SRD, 1.7 ± 0.5; B, 1.8 ± 0.6; SRD+B, 1.4 ± 0.4 L·d-1), urine specific gravity (1.016 ± 0.005, 1.018 ± 0.006, 1.017 ± 0.006) or body mass (68.4 ± 8.2, 68.3 ± 7.7, 68.2 ± 8.1 kg). No main effect of treatment existed for sodium intake-loss (-713 ± 1486; -973 ± 1123; -980 ± 1220 mg·d-1). Mean arterial pressure (81.0 ± 4.6, 81.1 ± 7.3, 83.8 ± 5.4 mm Hg) and average exercise running economy (VO2: SRD, 47.9 ± 3.2; B, 47.2 ± 2.6; SRD+B, 46.2 ± 3.4 ml·kg-1·min-1) was not affected. Urinary sodium excretion accounted for the daily sodium int

--- 9a082193 seq5920 [enriched]
Y:2022 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial']
TITLE: Effects of glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate supplementation in addition to resistance exercise training and manual therapy in patients with knee osteoarthritis: A randomized controlled trial.
ABS: <h4>Objective</h4>To determine the added benefits of short-term glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate supplementation in combination with manual therapy and resistance exercise training in the management of knee osteoarthritis.<h4>Methods</h4>A parallel-design, double-blind randomised controlled trial was conducted from January to September 2020 at the Foundation University Institute of Rehabilitation Sciences and Fauji Foundation Hospital, Rawalpindi, Pakistan, and comprised of knee osteoarthritis patients of either gender having radiological evidence of grade III or less on Kellgren classification. The subjects were randomly allocated to active comparator group A and experimental group B. Both the groups received manual therapy and resistance exercise training, while group B additionally received glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate supplementation for 4 weeks. Study outcomes included pain, function, quality of life, range of motion, strength, fall risk, skeletal muscle mass, visceral fat area, body fat, intracellular water ratio, and segmental lean and fat mass. Data was analysed using SPSS 21.<h4>Results</h4>Of the 24 subjects, there were 12(50%) in each of the two groups. Each groups had 9(75%) males and 3(25%) females. In terms knee osteoarthritis grade, there was no significant difference between the groups (p=1.00). No significant differences were observed in any of the outcome measures neither at 2 weeks, nor at 4 weeks post-intervention between the groups (p>0.05) exce

--- 9b7ffdef seq5921 [enriched]
Y:2025 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Dietary gamma-aminobutyric acid enhances endurance exercise capacity through mechanisms involving activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha.
ABS: Dietary gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) provides physiological benefits and has been extensively studied for its metabolic effects such as reducing stress, hypertension, improving sleep and cognitive function. However, its effects, when combined with exercise training, on endurance exercise capacity remain unclear. In this study, we aimed to investigate the combined effects of dietary GABA supplementation and exercise training on endurance performance in mice and explore its underlying mechanisms. Mice were divided into four groups: (1) control (standard diet, no training), (2) GABA (GABA-supplemented diet, no training), (3) training (standard diet, treadmill training), and (4) GABA-training (GABA-supplemented diet, treadmill training). Skeletal muscle samples were analyzed for molecular and metabolic changes. The findings demonstrated that dietary GABA supplementation significantly increased the treadmill endurance time, with the most pronounced effect observed in the GABA-training group. Mechanistic analysis revealed that these endurance improvements were associated with enhanced activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha (PGC-1α), glycogen storage, and mitochondrial biogenesis in skeletal muscle. These findings suggest that dietary GABA supplementation enhances exercise-induced adaptations and endurance performance by modulating key metabolic pathways and may serve as a valuable dietary supplement for athletes and physically active in

--- dfe97fca seq5922 [enriched]
Y:2001 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Cyanoside chloride and chromocarbe diethylamine are more effective than vitamin C against exercise-induced oxidative stress.
ABS: Exercise generates free radicals only when it is exhaustive. Free radicals are involved in tissue damage caused by exercise. Antioxidant vitamins (vitamin C and E) and other antioxidants such as coenzyme Q, and N-acetyl cysteine prevent muscle damage and decrease muscle fatigue. The main aim of this paper was to test the possible protective effect of two new antioxidants, cyanoside chloride and chromocarbe diethylamine, on the oxidative stress generated by exhaustive exercise. The antioxidants were given to rats daily (50 mg/kg) in drinking water for 30 days. Blood oxidized glutathione/ reduced glutathione ratio, and plasma malondialdehyde levels were determined as indexes of oxidative stress. Plasma creatine kinase, alanine-aminotransferase and lactate dehydrogenase activities were used as markers of muscle damage. Both cyanoside chloride and chromocarbe diethylamine were more effective than vitamin C in the prevention of glutathione oxidation in blood. Furthermore, cyanoside chloride and chromocarbe diethylamine partially prevented muscle damage. Chromocarbe diethylamine was the most effective compound in the prevention of exercise-induced lipid peroxidation (malondialdehyde) in plasma.

--- d12a3c2e seq5923 [enriched]
Y:2021 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Restoring Perivascular Adipose Tissue Function in Obesity Using Exercise.
ABS: <h4>Purpose</h4>Perivascular adipose tissue (PVAT) exerts an anti-contractile effect which is vital in regulating vascular tone. This effect is mediated via sympathetic nervous stimulation of PVAT by a mechanism which involves noradrenaline uptake through organic cation transporter 3 (OCT3) and β<sub>3</sub>-adrenoceptor-mediated adiponectin release. In obesity, autonomic dysfunction occurs, which may result in a loss of PVAT function and subsequent vascular disease. Accordingly, we have investigated abnormalities in obese PVAT, and the potential for exercise in restoring function.<h4>Methods</h4>Vascular contractility to electrical field stimulation (EFS) was assessed ex vivo in the presence of pharmacological tools in ±PVAT vessels from obese and exercised obese mice. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect changes in expression of β<sub>3</sub>-adrenoceptors, OCT3 and tumour necrosis factor-α (TNFα) in PVAT.<h4>Results</h4>High fat feeding induced hypertension, hyperglycaemia, and hyperinsulinaemia, which was reversed using exercise, independent of weight loss. Obesity induced a loss of the PVAT anti-contractile effect, which could not be restored via β<sub>3</sub>-adrenoceptor activation. Moreover, adiponectin no longer exerts vasodilation. Additionally, exercise reversed PVAT dysfunction in obesity by reducing inflammation of PVAT and increasing β<sub>3</sub>-adrenoceptor and OCT3 expression, which were downregulated in obesity. Furthermore, the vasodilator effects of ad

--- a63b39d9 seq5924 [enriched]
Y:2016 T:['Case Reports', 'Journal Article']
TITLE: Case Study: Impact of Inter- and Intra-Day Energy Parameters on Bone Health, Menstrual Function, and Hormones in an Elite Junior Female Triathlete.
ABS: This observational case study examined the association of inter- and intraday energy intake and exercise energy expenditure with bone health, menstrual status and hematological factors in a female triathlete. The study spanned 7 months whereby energy intake and exercise energy expenditure were monitored three times (13 d); 16 blood samples were taken, urinary hormones were assessed for 3 months, and bone mineral density was measured twice. Energy availability tended to be sustained below 30 kcal/kg FFM/d and intraday energy intake patterns were often "back-loaded" with approximately 46% of energy consumed after 6 p.m. Most triiodothyronine values were low (1.1-1.2nmol/L) and supportive of reduced energy availability. The athlete had suppressed estradiol (105.1 ± 71.7pmol/L) and progesterone (1.79 ±1.19nmol/L) concentrations as well as urinary sex-steroid metabolites during the entire monitoring period. Lumbar spine (L1-L4) bone mineral density was low (age-matched Z-score -1.4 to -1.5). Despite these health related maladies the athlete was able to perform typical weekly training loads (swim: 30-40 km, bike: 120-300 km, run 45-70 km) and was competitive as indicated by her continued improvement in ITU World Ranking during and beyond the assessment period. There is a delicate balance between health and performance that can become blurred especially for endurance athletes. Education (athletes, coaches, parents) and continued monitoring of specific indicators will enable evidence

--- a14575bd seq5925 [enriched]
Y:2020 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Effect of Acute Sprint Exercise on Myokines and Food Intake Hormones in Young Healthy Men.
ABS: Physical exercise is known to influence hormonal mediators of appetite, but the effect of short-term maximal intensity exercise on plasma levels of appetite hormones and cytokines has been little studied. We investigated the effect of a 30 s Wingate Test, followed by a postprandial period, on appetite sensations, food intake, and appetite hormones. Twenty-six physically active young males rated their subjective feelings of hunger, prospective food consumption, and fatigue on visual analogue scales at baseline, after exercise was completed, and during the postprandial period. Blood samples were obtained for the measurement of nesfatin-1, ghrelin, leptin, insulin, pancreatic polypeptide (PP), human growth factor (hGH) and cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6), irisin and plasma lactate concentrations, at 30 min before exercise, immediately (210 s) after exercise, and 30 min following a meal and at corresponding times in control sedentary males without ad libitum meal intake, respectively. Appetite perceptions and food intake were decreased in response to exercise. Plasma levels of irisin, IL-6, lactate, nesfatin-1 and ghrelin was increased after exercise and then it was returned to postprandial/control period in both groups. A significant rise in plasma insulin, hGH and PP levels after exercise was observed while meal intake potentiated this response. In conclusion, an acute short-term fatiguing exercise can transiently suppress hunger sensations and food intake in humans. We postulate

[p237 unjudged: 24 of 25]