--- 278eee01 seq6001 [enriched]
Y:2008 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: N-acetylcysteine supplementation and oxidative damage and inflammatory response after eccentric exercise.
ABS: The objective of the study was to verify the effect of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) supplementation on parameters of oxidative damage and inflammatory response after high-intensity eccentric exercise (EE). 29 participants with a mean age of 21.3+/-4 yr, weight of 74.5+/-7.7 kg, and height of 177.2+/-6.9 cm were selected and divided randomly into 3 groups: placebo (21 days; n=8), NAC (21 days; n=9), and NAC plus placebo (14 days; n=8). Four participants withdrew from the study for personal reasons. 14 days after starting supplementation, the participants performed EE: 3 sets until exhaustion (elbow flexion and extension on the Scott bench, 80% 1RM). Blood samples were collected before and on the 2nd, 4th, and 7th day after EE. Muscle soreness (MS), lipoperoxidation, protein carbonylation, tumor-necrosis factor- (TNF-), and interleukin 10 (IL-10) were determined. Results showed a significant increase in MS in all the groups on the 2nd day after EE and a decrease in the following days. A significant increase was observed in malondialdehyde and carbonyl levels on the 4th and 7th days after EE in all groups. TNF- increased significantly on the 2nd day after eccentric exercise and decreased in the following days irrespective of NAC supplementation; concentration of IL-10 increased significantly on the 4th day in all groups. Only the supplemented groups maintained high levels of IL-10 on the 7th day after EE. The results suggest that treatment with NAC represents an important factor in th

--- 5d4e89a5 seq6002 [enriched]
Y:2024 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial']
TITLE: Effects of Milk Fat Globule Membrane Supplementation Following Exercise Training on Physical Performance in Healthy Young Adults: A Randomized Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Pilot Trial.
ABS: The purpose of this study was to examine whether 4 wk of daily ingestion of milk fat globule membrane (MFGM) combined with exercise training improves physical performance-muscle strength, agility and muscle power-in healthy young adults. The study was designed as a randomized, double-blind, and placebo-controlled trial. Twenty healthy young adults received either an MFGM powder containing 1.6 g of fat and 160 mg of sphingomyelin or an isocaloric placebo powder daily throughout 4 wk of power or agility training. Physical performance tests and body composition measurements were conducted before and after the 4-wk intervention. Ingestion of MFGM did not affect isometric or isokinetic muscle strength, but it was associated with a greater increase in vertical jump peak power compared with placebo. There were no significant changes in body weight or lean body mass during the intervention period in either group, and no significant differences between groups. We conclude that daily MFGM supplementation combined with exercise training has the potential to improve physical performance in young adults; however, further studies with larger sample sizes should be conducted to obtain more evidence supporting achievement of improved physical performance through MFGM supplementation.

--- f15e0bcb seq6003 [enriched]
Y:1993 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Changes in plasma antioxidant status during eccentric exercise and the effect of vitamin supplementation.
ABS: Twenty-four healthy students undertook one hour of box-stepping exercise. Prior to exercise eight had received no medication (Group A), eight received 400 mg of vitamin C daily for three weeks before and one week after exercise (Group C) and eight received 400 mg of vitamin E for the same period (Group E). Groups C and E had significantly higher levels of vitamin C (p < 0.01) and vitamin E (p < 0.01) respectively than group A at the commencement of exercise. Plasma total antioxidant capacity rose significantly during exercise in all group (A - p < 0.05; C - p < 0.001; E - p < 0.001). This rise was accounted for by increases in plasma uric acid in all groups. In addition there were significant increases in vitamin C in group C (p < 0.001) and vitamin E in group E (p < 0.05). There were no significant changes in plasma malondialdehyde following exercise in any group. It is concluded that plasma antioxidant capacity rises in response to one hour of eccentric exercise and that the contribution of individual antioxidants to this change can be influenced by vitamin supplementation. The possible mechanisms of the antioxidant changes during exercise and their implications are discussed.

--- e2bccd2a seq6004 [enriched]
Y:2008 T:['Controlled Clinical Trial', 'Journal Article']
TITLE: Preventive effect of lactoferrin intake on anemia in female long distance runners.
ABS: This study investigated whether intake of lactoferrin (LF) would improve or prevent anemia in female long distance runners who were training during the summer season and had a high risk of iron-deficiency anemia. Sixteen female long distance runners were divided into a group taking LF and iron (the LF group) and a group that only took iron (the control group) for 8 weeks. In the control group, the ferritin, serum iron, and red blood cell count were significantly lower than before treatment. In the LF group, the hematology data showed no significant change during the 8 weeks. The red blood cell count was significantly higher in the LF group than in the control group. The blood lactate level following a 3,000-m pace run of the control group was also significantly higher than that of the LF group. These observations suggest the possibility that intake of LF increases the absorption and utilization of iron and would be useful in the prevention of iron deficiency anemia among female long distance runners.

--- c570bcae seq6005 [enriched]
Y:1996 T:['Clinical Trial', 'Controlled Clinical Trial', 'Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Effect of physical exercise and vitamin C on absorption of ferric sodium citrate.
ABS: The effect of physical exercise and vitamin C on iron absorption after oral iron administration was investigated. Eight healthy male subjects without iron deficiency were studied after administration of 100 mg ferric sodium citrate complex, 100 mg ferric sodium citrate complex with 200 mg ascorbic acid, and without iron intake, both under resting conditions and after a 1-h bicycle ergometer test at moderate exercise. Serum concentrations for iron, transferrin, and ferritin were measured before and 30 min, and 1, 2, and 4 h after each administration. Under resting conditions administration of 100 mg ferric sodium citrate led to a significant increase in serum iron concentrations. When ferric sodium citrate was administered with vitamin C, iron values increased significantly further. Ingestion of iron together with physical exercise resulted in a higher serum iron concentration than under resting conditions. The maximum increase, reached after 4 h, was 48.2% with exercise and 8.3% without. In combination with exercise, the addition of 200 mg vitamin C did not further increase serum iron concentration. In conclusion, 1 h of moderate exercise enhanced the rate of iron absorption. Under resting conditions the combination of ferric sodium citrate with vitamin C led to significantly increased postabsorption serum iron concentrations compared with iron administration without vitamin C.

--- 0065eec7 seq6006 [enriched]
Y:2002 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Hypocaloric diet reduces exercise-induced alpha 2-adrenergic antilipolytic effect and alpha 2-adrenergic receptor mRNA levels in adipose tissue of obese women.
ABS: Previous investigations have shown that alpha 2-adrenoceptor (alpha 2-AR) stimulation blunts lipid mobilization during physiological activation of the sympathetic nervous system promoted by exercise in sc abdominal adipose tissue (SCAAT) in obese men. To investigate the effect of a low calorie diet (LCD) on the alpha 2-adrenergic responsiveness and on the expression of alpha 2-AR and beta 2-adrenoceptor (beta 2-AR) in SCAAT, 11 obese women (weight: 99.1 +/- 4.6 kg; body mass index: 34.3 +/- 1.1 kg/m(2)) received a 12-wk diet providing 500 kcal/d less than their usual diet. The exercise-induced alpha 2-adrenergic antilipolytic effect was investigated in SCAAT before and at the end of LCD. Changes in extracellular glycerol concentration and local blood flow were measured in SCAAT during a 45-min exercise bout (50% of heart rate reserve) using a control microdialysis probe and a probe supplemented with the alpha2-AR antagonist phentolamine. SCAAT biopsies were performed for determination of mRNA levels using RT-competitive PCR. Plasma catecholamine responses to exercise bout were not different before and at the end of LCD. Before LCD, the exercise-induced increase in extracellular glycerol concentration was potentiated by phentolamine supplementation, while this potentiating effect of the alpha-antagonist was not observed at the end of LCD. No changes were observed for beta 2-AR and hormone-sensitive lipase mRNA levels, while alpha 2-AR mRNA level was significantly decreased in 

--- 2578c085 seq6007 [enriched]
Y:2016 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Effects of Almond- and Olive Oil-Based Docosahexaenoic- and Vitamin E-Enriched Beverage Dietary Supplementation on Inflammation Associated to Exercise and Age.
ABS: <i>n</i>-3-polyunsaturated fatty acids and polyphenols are potential key factors for the treatment and prevention of chronic inflammation associated to ageing and non-communicable diseases. The aim was to analyse effects of an almond and olive oil beverage enriched with α-tocopherol and docosahexaenoic, exercise and age on inflammatory plasma markers, and immune gene expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Five young and five senior athletes who were supplemented for five weeks with a functional beverage performed a stress test under controlled conditions before and after beverage supplementation. Blood samples were taken immediately before and 1 h after each test. Plasma, erythrocytes and PBMCs were isolated. Beverage supplementation increased plasmatic Tumour Necrosis Factor α (TNFα) levels depending on age and exercise. Exercise increased plasma non esterified fatty acids (NEFAs), soluble Intercellular adhesion molecule 3 (sICAM3) and soluble L-selectin (sL-Selectin), and this increase was attenuated by the supplementation. Exercise increased PGE2 plasma levels in supplemented young and in senior placebo athletes. Exercise increased NFkβ-activated levels in PBMCs, which are primed to a pro-inflammatory response increasing pro-inflammatory genes expression after the exercise mainly in the young group after the supplementation. The functional beverage supplementation to young athletes enhances a pro-inflammatory circulating environment in response to the ex

--- b05e9a81 seq6008 [enriched]
Y:2024 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial']
TITLE: Effects of Resistance Exercise and Essential Amino Acid Intake on Muscle Quality, Myokine, and Inflammation Factors in Young Adult Males.
ABS: <h4>Background</h4>Recently, many studies have been devoted to discovering nutrients for exercise-like effects. Resistance exercise and the intake of essential amino acids (EAAs) are known to be factors that can affect muscle mass and strength improvement. The purpose of this study was to investigate changes in muscle quality, myokines, and inflammation in response to resistance exercise and EAA supplementation.<h4>Methods</h4>Thirty-four males volunteered to participate in this study. They were assigned to four groups: (1) placebo (CO), (2) resistance exercise (RE), (3) EAA supplementation, and (4) RE + EAA supplementation. Body composition, muscle quality, myokines, and inflammation were measured at baseline and four weeks after treatment.<h4>Results</h4>Lean body fat had decreased in both RE and RE + EAA groups. Lean body mass had increased in only the RE + EAA group. In all groups except for CO, irisin, myostatin A, and TNF-α levels had decreased. The grip strength of the right hand and trunk flexion peak torque increased in the RE group. The grip strength of the left hand, trunk flexion peak torque, and knee flexion peak torque of the left leg were increased in RE + EAA.<h4>Conclusions</h4>RE, EAA, and RE + EAA could effectively improve the muscle quality, myokine, and inflammation factors of young adult males. This finding highlights the importance of resistance exercise and amino acid intake.

--- dcfbaeec seq6009 [enriched]
Y:2013 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Effects of creatine supplementation on oxidative stress and inflammatory markers after repeated-sprint exercise in humans.
ABS: <h4>Objective</h4>The goal of this study was to evaluate the effects of creatine (Cr) supplementation on oxidative stress and inflammation markers after acute repeated-sprint exercise in humans.<h4>Methods</h4>Twenty-five players under age 20 y were randomly assigned to two groups: Cr supplemented and placebo. Double-blind controlled supplementation was performed using Cr (0.3 g/kg) or placebo tablets for 7 d. Before and after 7 d of supplementation, the athletes performed two consecutive Running-based Anaerobic Sprint Tests (RAST). RAST consisted of six 35-m sprint runs at maximum speed with 10 sec rest between them. Blood samples were collected just prior to start of test (pre), just after the completion (0 h), and 1 h after completion.<h4>Results</h4>Average, maximum, and minimum power values were greater in the Cr-supplemented group compared with placebo (P < 0.05). There were significant increases (P < 0.05) in plasma tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and C-reactive protein (CRP) up to 1 h after acute sprint exercise in the placebo-supplemented group. Malondialdehyde, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), catalase, and superoxide dismutase enzymes also were increased after exercise in both groups. Red blood cell glutathione was lower after exercise in both groups. Cr supplementation reversed the increase in TNF-α and CRP as well as LDH induced by acute exercise. Controversially, Cr supplementation did not inhibit the rise in oxidative stress markers. Also, antioxidant enzyme ac

--- 3641c276 seq6010 [enriched]
Y:2003 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Effect of resistance exercise on postprandial lipemia.
ABS: The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of resistance exercise on postprandial lipemia. Fourteen young men and women participated in each of three treatments: 1) control (Con), 2) resistance exercise (RE), and 3) aerobic exercise (AE) estimated to have an energy expenditure (EE) equal that for RE. Each trial consisted of performing a treatment on day 1 and ingesting a fat-tolerance test meal 16 h later (day 2). Resting metabolic rate and fat oxidation were measured at baseline and at 3 and 6 h postprandial on day 2. Blood was collected at baseline and at 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 h after meal ingestion. RE and AE were similar in EE [1.7 +/- 0.1 vs. 1.6 +/- 0.1 (SE) MJ, respectively], as measured by using the Cosmed K4b(2). Baseline triglycerides (TG) were significantly lower after RE than after Con (19%) and AE (21%). Furthermore, the area under the postprandial response curve for TG, adjusted for baseline differences, was significantly lower after RE than after Con (14%) and AE (18%). Resting fat oxidation was significantly greater after RE than after Con (21%) and AE (28%). These results indicate that resistance exercise lowers baseline and postprandial TG, and increases resting fat oxidation, 16 h after exercise.

--- 41a8b311 seq6011 [enriched]
Y:2011 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Phytoestrogens enhance antioxidant enzymes after swimming exercise and modulate sex hormone plasma levels in female swimmers.
ABS: Our aim was to investigate the effects of diet supplementation with phytoestrogens on sex hormone levels, antioxidant adaptive responses and oxidative damage induced by exercise. Ten female swimmers participated for 26 days in a diet intervention with either a functional beverage rich in vitamins C and E or the same beverage but also supplemented with Lippia citriodora extract (PLX) containing 20 mg/100 ml verbascoside. After the intervention all subjects participated in a swimming session for 30 min maintaining the intensity at about 75-80% of their individual best performance time for a 50-m swim. In lymphocytes, the superoxide dismutase activity increased after exercise, with a higher increase in the PLX group. Swimming increased the erythrocyte activity of glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase in the PLX group. Purified glutathione reductase activity increased after an in vitro incubation with PLX. No effects were observed on the lymphocyte levels of malondialdehyde and carbonyls, but exercise increased the percentage of high-damaged lymphocytes 2.8 times in the placebo group and 1.5 times in the PLX group. PLX decreased the levels of 17-β-estradiol and testosterone and increased the levels of the sex hormone binding globulin. In conclusion, supplementation with phytoestrogens enhances the glutathione-dependent enzyme activities in erythrocytes and the superoxide dismutase activity in lymphocytes in response to exercise. PLX also shows direct antioxidant proper

--- daf324c0 seq6012 [enriched]
Y:2021 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Effects of Beef Protein Supplementation in Male Elite Triathletes: A Randomized, Controlled, Double-Blind, Cross-Over Study.
ABS: <h4>Objective</h4>Beef protein extracts are growing in popularity in recent years due to their purported anabolic effects as well as to their potential benefits on hematological variables. The present randomized, controlled, double-blind, cross-over study aimed to analyze the effects of beef protein supplementation on a group of male elite triathletes (Spanish National Team).<h4>Methods</h4>Six elite triathletes (age, 21 ± 3 years; VO<sub>2max</sub>, 71.5 ± 3.0 ml·kg·min<sup>-1</sup>) were randomly assigned to consume daily either 25 g of a beef supplement (BEEF) or an isoenergetic carbohydrates (CHO) supplement for 8 weeks, with both conditions being separated by a 5-week washout period. Outcomes, including blood analyses and anthropometrical measurements, were assessed before and after each 8-week intervention.<h4>Results</h4>No effects of supplement condition were observed on body mass nor on skinfold thicknesses, but BEEF induced significant and large benefits over CHO in the thigh cross-sectional area (3.02%, 95%CI = 1.33 to 4.71%; p = 0.028, d = 1.22). Contrary to CHO, BEEF presented a significant increase in <i>vastus lateralis</i> muscle thickness (p = 0.046), but differences between conditions were not significant (p = 0.173, d = 0.87). Although a significantly more favorable testosterone-to-cortisol ratio (TCR) was observed for BEEF over CHO (37%, 95% CI = 5 to 68%; p = 0.028, d = 1.29), no significant differences were found for the hematological variables (i.e., ir

--- bbbbe0d0 seq6013 [enriched]
Y:2006 T:['Comparative Study', 'Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', 'Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Serum levels of cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP) increase temporarily after physical exercise in patients with knee osteoarthritis.
ABS: <h4>Background</h4>COMP (Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein) is a matrix protein, which is currently studied as a potential serum marker for cartilage processes in osteoarthritis (OA). The influence of physical exercise on serum COMP is not fully elucidated. The objective of the present study was to monitor serum levels of COMP during a randomised controlled trial of physical exercise vs. standardised rest in individuals with symptomatic and radiographic knee OA.<h4>Methods</h4>Blood samples were collected from 58 individuals at predefined time points before and after exercise or rest, one training group and one control group. The physical exercise consisted of a one-hour supervised session twice a week and daily home exercises. In a second supplementary study 7 individuals were subjected to the same exercise program and sampling of blood was performed at fixed intervals before, immediately after, 30 and 60 minutes after the exercise session and then with 60 minutes interval for another five hours after exercise to monitor the short-term changes of serum COMP. COMP was quantified with a sandwich-ELISA (AnaMar Medical, Lund, Sweden).<h4>Results</h4>Before exercise or rest no significant differences in COMP levels were seen between the groups. After 60 minutes exercise serum COMP levels increased (p < 0.001). After 60 minutes of rest the serum levels decreased (p = 0.003). Median serum COMP values in samples obtained prior to exercise or rest at baseline and after 24 weeks did

--- db1f9469 seq6014 [enriched]
Y:2019 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Impact of aerobic exercise and fatty acid supplementation on global and gene-specific DNA methylation.
ABS: Lifestyle interventions, including exercise and dietary supplementation, can modify DNA methylation and exert health benefits; however, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here we investigated the impact of acute aerobic exercise and the supplementation of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFA) and extra virgin olive oil (EVOO) on global and gene-specific (PPARGC1A, IL6 and TNF) DNA methylation, and DNMT mRNA expression in leukocytes of disease-free individuals. Eight trained male cyclists completed an exercise test before and after a four-week supplementation of n-3 PUFA and EVOO in a double-blind, randomised, repeated measures design. Exercise triggered global hypomethylation (Pre 79.2%; Post 78.7%; p = 0.008), alongside, hypomethylation (Pre 6.9%; Post 6.3%; p < 0.001) and increased mRNA expression of PPARGC1A (p < 0.001). Associations between PPARGC1A methylation and exercise performance were also detected. An interaction between supplement and trial was detected for a single CpG of IL6 indicating increased DNA methylation following n-3 PUFA and decreased methylation following EVOO (p = 0.038). Global and gene-specific DNA methylation associated with markers of inflammation and oxidative stress. The supplementation of EVOO reduced DNMT1 mRNA expression compared to n-3 PUFA supplementation (p = 0.048), whereas, DNMT3a (p = 0.018) and DNMT3b (p = 0.046) mRNA expression were decreased following exercise. In conclusion, we demonstrate that acute exercise 

--- cbec5f7b seq6015 [enriched]
Y:2004 T:['Clinical Trial', 'Comparative Study', 'Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't", "Research Support, U.S. Gov't, P.H.S."]
TITLE: Antioxidant supplementation prevents exercise-induced lipid peroxidation, but not inflammation, in ultramarathon runners.
ABS: To determine if 6 weeks of supplementation with vitamins E and C could alleviate exercise-induced lipid peroxidation and inflammation, we studied 22 runners during a 50 km ultramarathon. Subjects were randomly assigned to one of two groups: (1) placebos (PL) or (2) antioxidants (AO: 1000 mg vitamin C and 300 mg RRR-alpha-tocopheryl acetate). Blood samples were obtained prior to supplementation (baseline), after 3 weeks of supplementation, 1 h pre-, mid-, and postrace, 2 h postrace and for 6 days postrace. Plasma levels of alpha-tocopherol (alpha-TOH), ascorbic acid (AA), uric acid (UA), F2-isoprostanes (F2-IsoPs), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and C-reactive protein (CRP) were measured. With supplementation, plasma alpha-TOH and AA increased in the AO but not the PL group. Although F2-IsoP levels were similar between groups at baseline, 28 +/- 2 (PL) and 27 +/- 3 pg/ml (AO), F2-IsoPs increased during the run only in the PL group (41 +/- 3 pg/ml). In PL women, F2-IsoPs were elevated postrace (p <.01), but returned to prerace concentrations by 2 h postrace. In PL men, F2-IsoP concentrations were higher postrace, 2 h postrace, and 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 days postrace (PL vs. AO group, each p <.03). Markers of inflammation were increased dramatically in response to the run regardless of treatment group. Thus, AO supplementation prevented endurance exercise-induced lipid peroxidation but had no effect on inflammatory markers.

--- d01ea0fb seq6016 [enriched]
Y:2000 T:['Clinical Trial', 'Comparative Study', 'Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Effect of oral glutamine supplementation on human neutrophil lipopolysaccharide-stimulated degranulation following prolonged exercise.
ABS: Recent studies have shown that neutrophils can utilize glutamine and that glutamine supplementation can improve neutrophil function in postoperative and burn patients. The present study investigated the influence of oral glutamine supplementation on stimulated neutrophil degranulation and oxidative burst activity following prolonged exercise. Subjects, 7 well-trained men, reported to the laboratory following an overnight fast and cycled for 2 hrs at 60% VO2max on two occasions a week apart. They were randomly assigned to either a glutamine or placebo treatment. For both trials, subjects consumed a sugar-free lemon drink at 15-min intervals until 90 minutes, then a lemon flavored glutamine drink (GLN) or sugar-free lemon drink (PLA) was consumed at 15-min intervals for the remaining exercise and the 2-hr recovery period. Venous blood samples were taken pre-, during, and postexercise. Glutamine supplementation had no effect on the magnitude of postexercise leukocytosis, the plasma elastase concentration following exercise (which increased in both trials), or the plasma elastase release in response to bacterial stimulation (which fell in both trials). Neutrophil function assessed by oxidative burst activity of isolated cells did not change following exercise in either trial. These findings therefore suggest that the fall in plasma glutamine concentration does not account for the decrease in neutrophil function (degranulation response) following prolonged exercise.

--- 1569f919 seq6017 [enriched]
Y:2011 T:['Controlled Clinical Trial', 'Journal Article']
TITLE: Melatonin supplementation ameliorates oxidative stress and inflammatory signaling induced by strenuous exercise in adult human males.
ABS: Strenuous exercise induces inflammatory reactions together with high production of free radicals and subsequent muscle damage. This study was designed to investigate for the first time and simultaneously whether over-expression of inflammatory mediators, oxidative stress, and alterations in biochemical parameters induced by acute exercise could be prevented by melatonin. This indoleamine is a potent, endogenously produced free radical scavenger and a broad-spectrum antioxidant; consequently, it might have positive effects on the recovery following an exercise session. The participants were classified into two groups: melatonin-treated men (MG) and placebo-treated individuals (controls group, CG). The physical test consisted in a constant run that combined several degrees of high effort (mountain run and ultra-endurance). The total distance of the run was 50 km with almost 2800 m of ramp in permanent climbing and very changeable climatic conditions. Exercise was associated with a significant increase in TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1ra (in blood), and also an increase in 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) and isoprostane levels (in urine), and indicated the degree of oxidative stress and inflammation induced. Oral supplementation of melatonin during high-intensity exercise proved efficient in reducing the degree of oxidative stress (lower levels of lipid peroxidation, with a significant increase in antioxidative enzyme activities); this would lead to the maintenance of the cellular integ

--- 5b9644a5 seq6018 [enriched]
Y:2019 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial']
TITLE: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Study to Evaluate the Effectiveness of a Food Supplement Containing Creatine and D-Ribose Combined with a Physical Exercise Program in Increasing Stress Tolerance in Patients with Ischemic Heart Disease.
ABS: The aim of this study is to establish whether a supplement of creatine and ribose combined with a physical exercise program can improve the total work capacity during exercise in a population of patients with known ischemic heart disease. A double-blind, six-month study was designed in which 53 patients were enrolled and randomized to take either a nutraceutical composition containing creatine, D-ribose, vitamin B<sub>1</sub>, and vitamin B<sub>6</sub> (active treatment) or the placebo. Both the nutraceutical supplement and the placebo were supplied by Giellepi S.p.A. Health Science in Lissone, Italy. After six months of study, the cardiac double product at the peak of the load, the delta double product, and the chronotropic index were higher in the active treatment group than in the placebo group. We can conclude that a supplementation with creatine, D-ribose, vitamin B<sub>1</sub>, and vitamin B<sub>6</sub>, in addition to standard therapy and a physical exercise program, seems to be helpful in improving exercise tolerance compared to the placebo in a population with cardiovascular disease. However, this needs to be further studied, given that there is no clear evidence that the double product can be used as a surrogate measure of exercise tolerance.

--- 6da09c6c seq6019 [enriched]
Y:1992 T:['Clinical Trial', 'Comparative Study', 'Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Effect of iron supplementation on endurance capacity in iron-depleted female runners.
ABS: The purpose of this investigation was to examine the effects of oral iron supplementation on endurance performance in initially iron-depleted, nonanemic female distance runners. Eighteen iron-depleted (serum ferritin less than 20 ng.ml-1, hemoglobin greater than or equal to 12 g.dl-1) women (22-39 yr) performed a VO2max test and an endurance run to exhaustion. Subjects were pair-matched on the basis of endurance time and then randomly assigned to an iron supplement or a placebo group. Following supplementation, the iron group had a significantly higher (P = 0.03) mean serum ferritin concentration (23.4 vs 15.7 ng.ml-1) and lower (P = 0.04) mean total iron-binding capacity than the placebo group. Both groups increased their time to exhaustion (25.5% and 22.2% for the iron and placebo groups, respectively) but were not significantly different (P = 0.72) from each other. There were also no differences (P greater than 0.05) between the groups with respect to lactate concentrations and physiological measures taken during the two exercise tests. The results of this study suggest that 8 wk of oral iron supplementation improves iron status in iron-depleted female distance runners, but does not enhance endurance capacity.

--- 3d5f6e45 seq6020 [enriched]
Y:2013 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Exercise-induced oxidative stress in elderly subjects: the effect of red orange supplementation on the biochemical and cellular response to a single bout of intense physical activity.
ABS: Aging is characterized by an impaired capacity to maintain the redox balance both in physiological and pathological situations associated with an increased production of reactive oxygen species. Since the extent of this phenomenon may be influenced by an antioxidants-rich diet, we investigated the effect of supplementation with fresh red orange juice (ROJ) on biochemical and cellular biomarkers of oxidative stress in healthy, trained elderly women after a single bout of exhaustive exercise (EE). To this purpose, a sample of 22 females, 15 (69.0 ± 5.1 years) taking the ROJ supplementation and 7 (68.1 ± 2.7 years) as Control group, was constituted. Blood samples were collected immediately before, 30 minutes, and 24 hr after a single bout of EE, at baseline and after 4 weeks. Our results demonstrate that markers of DNA damage or apoptosis were not affected by EE both in Control and ROJ group, and by ROJ, whereas, exercise temporarily affected the redox balance in both groups. Controls didn't change their response to EE after the experimental period, but experimental group after ROJ supplementation had lower EE-induced MDA, consumed less ascorbic acid, and had less activation of the hypoxanthine/xanthine system, i.e., they seemed to be protected from hypoxia/reoxygenation mechanisms.

--- ed1eff8a seq6021 [enriched]
Y:2001 T:['Clinical Trial', 'Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Effect of vitamin supplementation on cytokine response and on muscle damage after strenuous exercise.
ABS: The present double-blinded, placebo-controlled study investigated whether antioxidant vitamin supplementation was able to modulate the cytokine and lymphocyte responses after strenuous eccentric exercise. Furthermore, muscle enzyme release was examined to see whether antioxidant treatment could reduce muscle damage. Twenty male recreational runners randomly received either antioxidants (500 mg of vitamin C and 400 mg of vitamin E) or placebo for 14 days before and 7 days after a 5% downhill 90-min treadmill run at 75% .VO(2 max). Although the supplemented group differed significantly with regard to plasma vitamin concentration before and after exercise when compared with the placebo group, the two groups showed identical exercise-induced changes in cytokine, muscle enzyme, and lymphocyte subpopulations. The plasma level of interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-1 receptor antagonist increased 20- and 3-fold after exercise. The plasma level of creatine kinase was increased sixfold the day after exercise. The concentrations of CD4+ memory T cells, CD8+ memory and naïve T cells, and natural killer cells increased at the end of exercise. The total lymphocyte concentration was below prevalues in the postexercise period. In conclusion, the present study does not support the idea that exercise-induced inflammatory responses are induced by free oxygen radicals.

--- 57fa8b97 seq6022 [enriched]
Y:2013 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Creatine supplementation does not decrease oxidative stress and inflammation in skeletal muscle after eccentric exercise.
ABS: Thirty-six male rats were used; divided into 6 groups (n = 6): saline; creatine (Cr); eccentric exercise (EE) plus saline 24 h (saline + 24 h); eccentric exercise plus Cr 24 h (Cr + 24 h); eccentric exercise plus saline 48 h (saline + 48 h); and eccentric exercise plus Cr 48 h (Cr + 48 h). Cr supplementation was administered as a solution of 300 mg · kg body weight(-1) · day(-1) in 1 mL water, for two weeks, before the eccentric exercise. The animals were submitted to one downhill run session at 1.0 km · h(-1) until exhaustion. Twenty-four and forty-eight hours after the exercise, the animals were killed, and the quadriceps were removed. Creatine kinase levels, superoxide production, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) level, carbonyl content, total thiol content, superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, interleukin-1b (IL-1β), nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kb), and tumour necrosis factor (TNF) were analysed. Cr supplementation neither decreases Cr kinase, superoxide production, lipoperoxidation, carbonylation, total thiol, IL-1β, NF-kb, or TNF nor alters the enzyme activity of superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxides in relation to the saline group, respectively (P < 0.05). There are positive correlations between Cr kinase and TBARS and TNF-α 48 hours after eccentric exercise. The present study suggests that Cr supplementation does not decrease oxidative stress and inflammation after eccentric contraction.

--- c9d8fa8f seq6023 [enriched]
Y:2006 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', 'Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural']
TITLE: Antioxidant supplementation lowers exercise-induced oxidative stress in young overweight adults.
ABS: <h4>Objective</h4>To determine whether antioxidant (AOX) supplementation attenuates post-exercise oxidative stress and contributors to oxidative stress (inflammation, blood lipids) in overweight young adults.<h4>Research methods and procedures</h4>This was a randomized, double-blind, controlled study. Overweight (BMI, 33.2 +/- 1.9 kg/m(2)) and comparative normal-weight (BMI, 21.9 +/- 0.5 kg/m(2)) adults 18 to 30 years old (total N = 48) were enrolled. Participants received either daily antioxidant (AOX) treatment (800 IU of vitamin E, 500 mg of vitamin C, 10 mg of beta-carotene) or placebo (PL) for 8 weeks for a total of four groups. All participants completed a standardized 30-minute cycle exercise bout at baseline and 8 weeks. Exercise-induced changes in lipid hydroperoxide (DeltaPEROX), C-reactive protein (DeltaCRP), interleukin-6 (DeltaIL-6), cholesterol subfractions, triglycerides, total AOX status (DeltaTAS), and adiponectin were assessed.<h4>Results</h4>Exercise-induced DeltaPEROX was lower in the overweight-AOX group (0.09 nM/kg per min) compared with PL-treated overweight and normal-weight groups (0.98, 0.53 nM/kg per min) by 8 weeks (p < 0.05). Adiponectin was increased in both overweight and normal-weight AOX groups (22.1% vs. 3.1%; p < 0.05) but reduced in PL groups. DeltaIL-6, Deltatotal cholesterol, and Deltalow-density lipoprotein-cholesterol concentrations during exercise were lower in the AOX-treated groups compared with PL groups (all p < 0.05). After contro

--- 2befedce seq6024 [enriched]
Y:2010 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Antioxidant supplementation does not alter endurance training adaptation.
ABS: <h4>Background</h4>There is a considerable commercial market, especially within the sports community, claiming the need for antioxidant supplementation. One argument for antioxidant supplementation in sports is that physical exercise is associated with increased reactive oxygen and nitrogen species (RONS) production, which may cause cell damage. However, RONS production may also activate redox-sensitive signaling pathways and transcription factors, which subsequently, may promote training adaptation.<h4>Purpose</h4>Our aim was to investigate the effects of combined vitamin C and E supplementation to healthy individuals on different measures of exercise performance after endurance training.<h4>Methods</h4>Using a double-blinded placebo-controlled design, moderately trained young men received either oral supplementation with vitamins C and E (n = 11) or placebo (n = 10) before and during 12 wk of supervised, strenuous bicycle exercise training of a frequency of 5 d x wk(-1). Muscle biopsies were obtained before and after training.<h4>Results</h4>After the training period, maximal oxygen consumption, maximal power output, and workload at lactate threshold increased markedly (P < 0.01) in both groups. Also, glycogen concentration, citrate synthase, and beta-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity in the muscle were significantly higher in response to training (P < 0.01) in both groups. However, there were no differences between the two groups concerning any of the physiological an

--- d3c7cf93 seq6025 [enriched]
Y:2017 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', 'Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Less-than-expected weight loss in normal-weight women undergoing caloric restriction and exercise is accompanied by preservation of fat-free mass and metabolic adaptations.
ABS: <h4>Background/objectives</h4>Normal-weight women frequently restrict their caloric intake and exercise, but little is known about the effects on body weight, body composition and metabolic adaptations in this population.<h4>Subjects/methods</h4>We conducted a secondary analysis of data from a randomized controlled trial in sedentary normal-weight women. Women were assigned to a severe energy deficit (SEV: -1062±80 kcal per day; n=9), a moderate energy deficit (MOD: -633±71 kcal per day; n=7) or energy balance (BAL; n=9) while exercising five times per week for 3 months. Outcome variables included changes in body weight, body composition, resting metabolic rate (RMR) and metabolic hormones associated with energy conservation.<h4>Results</h4>Weight loss occurred in SEV (-3.7±0.9 kg, P<0.001) and MOD (-2.7±0.8 kg; P=0.003), but weight loss was significantly less than predicted (SEV: -11.1±1.0 kg; MOD: -6.5±1.1 kg; both P<0.001 vs actual). Fat mass declined in SEV (P<0.001) and MOD (P=0.006), whereas fat-free mass remained unchanged in all groups (P>0.33). RMR decreased by -6±2% in MOD (P=0.020). In SEV, RMR did not change on a group level (P=0.66), but participants whose RMR declined lost more weight (P=0.020) and had a higher baseline RMR (P=0.026) than those whose RMR did not decrease. Characteristic changes in leptin (P=0.003), tri-iodothyronine (P=0.013), insulin-like growth factor-1 (P=0.016) and ghrelin (P=0.049) occurred only in SEV. The energy deficit and adaptive chang

[p241 unjudged: 25 of 25]