--- 38305941 seq6451 [not-found-all-ids]
Y:2015 T:['dissertation']
TITLE: The Effect of Carbohydrate Mouth Rinsing On Skill Specific Performance and Cognitive Function Following a Fatigue Inducing Bout of Fencing

--- 318d1579 seq6452 [enriched]
Y:1989 T:['Comparative Study', 'Journal Article', "Research Support, U.S. Gov't, P.H.S."]
TITLE: Differences between individuals in high-molecular weight glycoproteins from mammary epithelia of several species.
ABS: Milk fat globules are secreted by envelopment in plasma membrane of the lactating cell. SDS-gel electrophoresis of proteins from this membrane has revealed differences between milk donors in two mucin-like glycoproteins. One of these glycoproteins resolves in 3% acrylamide stacking gel and the other in 4% running gel. The proteins vary in number of bands (one or two) and band mobilities. This polymorphism arises, at least in part, from expression of hypervariable genes. In this study, gel electrophoretic evidence of similar polymorphism in glycoproteins from cow, chimpanzee, horse and human milks is presented. In distinction to the other species, the cow expressed only one of these proteins which was detected in the running gel at Mr 180,000 to 200,000. The electrophoresis pattern for this protein from six cows was highly varied with respect to number (one or two) and position of bands. Peanut agglutinin, wheat germ agglutinin and concanavalin A all were bound specifically by bands of the bovine glycoprotein. Binding of concanavalin A distinguishes the bovine protein from the two human glycoproteins. Further studies of species differences should help shed light on the evolution of these unique glycoproteins and their possible functions in mother and young.

--- 78c8d96d seq6453 [enriched]
Y:2019 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: SARCOSYL-PAGE: Optimized Protocols for the Separation and Immunological Detection of PEGylated Proteins.
ABS: PEGylation of recombinant proteins and synthetic peptides aims to generate biopharmaceuticals with altered physical properties. The modification may lead to a prolonged serum half-life caused by decreased receptor-mediated endocytosis and/or delay in renal clearance caused by the increased hydrodynamic volume of the pharmaceutical. MIRCERA, a PEGylated recombinant erythropoietin (rhEPO) used in the treatment of anemia due to chronic kidney disease, has also been abused by athletes as performance-enhancing drug. While it can be detected by sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and immunoblotting, the sensitivity of the test is significantly lower compared to other epoetins. By replacing SDS with sarcosyl in the sample and running buffers, the interaction between SDS and the PEG group of the protein no longer reduces the affinity of the monoclonal anti-EPO antibody (clone AE7A5) to the protein chain. Contrary to SDS, sarcosyl only binds to the amino acid chain of the PEGylated protein and thus leads to a sharper electrophoretic band and enhanced antibody binding. While the method was originally developed for anti-doping purposes, it may also be useful for the electrophoretic separation and immunological detection of other PEGylated proteins. Protocols for urine and serum are presented. They are also applicable for the general detection of EPO-based erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESA) in these matrices.

--- 21649f8f seq6454 [not-found-all-ids]
Y:2019 T:['article']
TITLE: Effects of Commercial Isotonic Sports Drinks during Intermittent Exertion

--- a5b4eedd seq6455 [inline]
Y:2008 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Nutritional intake during a simulated adventure race.
ABS: The objective of the study was to describe the food intake of adventure racers during a competition simulated in the laboratory. Ten male athletes with international experience in adventure races took part in the study. The experiment lasted 67 hr (total distance covered 477.3 km), but 3 athletes did not finish the race. Food intake was recorded throughout the simulation. Athletes' total energy expenditure was greater than their total energy intake (24,516 vs. 14,738 kcal), and the athletes obtained significantly more energy from food than from supplements. Carbohydrate intake was below the recommendation of 0.5-1.0 g x kg(-1) x hr(-1). These results indicate that guidelines for multiday adventure races are needed.

--- 00bc6215 seq6456 [enriched]
Y:2007 T:['Journal Article', 'Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Sex-specific determinants of serum adiponectin in older adults: the role of endogenous sex hormones.
ABS: <h4>Objective</h4>To assess the sex-specific association of adiponectin with multiple factors thought to influence its levels, with a special emphasis on endogenous sex hormones.<h4>Design and methods</h4>A cross-sectional study of determinants of serum adiponectin in 873 men and 673 postmenopausal women, ages 50-92. Factors evaluated include age, body size, fat distribution, lifestyle (exercise, smoking, alcohol intake), insulin resistance, renal function and endogenous sex hormone levels (total and bioavailable testosterone and estradiol).<h4>Results</h4>Median serum adiponectin was 50% higher in women than men (P<0.001). In unadjusted analyses, adiponectin was positively related to age, alcohol intake, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and testosterone, and negatively related to waist girth, body mass index, Homeostasis Model Assessment for Insulin Resistance (HOMA-IR), triglycerides and bioavailable estradiol in both sexes (all P<0.01). Adiponectin was positively related to blood urea nitrogen, a measure of renal function, in men only (P<0.001). Sex-specific multivariate linear regressions adjusting for HDL and triglycerides showed that only age, HOMA-IR and sex hormones independently predicted circulating adiponectin for both men and women. Higher levels of endogenous testosterone and lower bioavailable estradiol concentrations each predicted higher adiponectin; this was true for both sexes, and was not explained by differences in age, adiposity, alcohol intake, insulin res

--- 79c0eb54 seq6457 [enriched]
Y:2023 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Laboratory evaluation of anti-plaque and remineralization efficacy of sugarless probiotic jelly candy supplemented with natural nano prebiotic additive.
ABS: We evaluated the anti-cariogenic effect of an experimental synbiotic compound containing probiotic Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus (NRRL B-442)-based jelly candy supplemented with natural prebiotic grape seed extract (GSE) in a nanoemulsion formula on the colonization and establishment of Streptococcus mutans (ATCC 25175) and Actinomyces viscosus (ATTCC 19246) biofilms through counting colony forming units, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). We were then analysing the remineralizing effect of synbiotic jelly candy on human enamel surface lesions using Vickers microhardness testers, atomic force microscopy (AFM), SEM, energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDAX), and confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) at three stages (sound, after demineralization, and after pH cycling). We found after 21 days of treatment of the pH-cycled enamel discs with jelly candy for 10 min twice daily, a 68% decrease in S. mutans colony formation, reducing biofilm development, trapping S. mutans visualized in jelly candy under SEM examination, and significantly altering the morphological structure of these bacteria under TEM analysis. For remineralization measurements, statistically significant differences in microhardness integrated mineral loss, and lesion depth through CLSM between demineralization and treatment stages. These findings provide an effective anti-cariogenic synbiotic compound of grape seed extract and probiotic jelly candy with potential r

--- 7f9bd468 seq6458 [enriched]
Y:2018 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Simultaneous determination of mono-, di-, oligo- and polysaccharides via planar chromatography in 4 different prebiotic foods and 60 naturally degraded inulin samples.
ABS: Oligo- and polysaccharides, especially fructooligosaccharides and inulin, are increasingly used as food ingredients. They are reported to stimulate the growth of bifidobacteria and are therefore used as prebiotics. As mono-, di-, oligo- and polysaccharides can together be present in food, an HPTLC method was developed for analyzing all in a single development. This method was used for both, effective food screening and quantification on the same plate. After a minimal sample preparation (aqueous extraction, dilution and filtration) and application, the samples were separated on an HPTLC plate silica gel 60 with acetonitrile - water 4:1 (V/V), containing 3.6 mM natural product reagent A. For a good reproducibility of the separation, the control of the layer activity was recommended. For up to 20 samples in parallel, the HPTLC analysis took 45 min (2.3 min/sample) with running costs of ca. 7 Euro (0.35 Euro/sample). Determination coefficients of the calibration curves were obtained between 0.9980 and 0.9998. The high degree of automation proved the method to be robust and suited for routine analysis, especially in food control. The newly developed method was successfully tested with 4 different prebiotic food and 60 naturally degraded inulin samples. A minimal sample preparation along with the determination of the intact inulin and FOS allowed the evaluation of the natural inulin degradation profile, as shown for naturally degraded inulin samples. This fast analysis might also 

--- 518513f1 seq6459 [no-identifier]
Y:1997 T:['dissertation']
TITLE: Influence of fatigue and dietary manipulation strategies on skilled tennis hitting performance

--- 28a4e5aa seq6460 [inline]
Y:2020 T:['Journal Article', 'research-article']
TITLE: Nutritional Recommendations for Physique Athletes.
ABS: The popularity of physique sports is increasing, yet there are currently few comprehensive nutritional guidelines for these athletes. Physique sport now encompasses more than just a short phase before competition and offseason guidelines have recently been published. Therefore, the goal of this review is to provide an extensive guide for male and female physique athletes in the contest preparation and recovery period. As optimal protein intake is largely related to one's skeletal muscle mass, current evidence supports a range of 1.8-2.7 g/kg. Furthermore, as a benefit from having adequate carbohydrate to fuel performance and activity, low-end fat intake during contest preparation of 10-25% of calories allows for what calories remain in the "energy budget" to come from carbohydrate to mitigate the negative impact of energy restriction and weight loss on training performance. For nutrient timing, we recommend consuming four or five protein boluses per day with one consumed near training and one prior to sleep. During competition periods, slower rates of weight loss (≤0.5% of body mass per week) are preferable for attenuating the loss of fat-free mass with the use of intermittent energy restriction strategies, such as diet breaks and refeeds, being possibly beneficial. Additionally, physiological and psychological factors are covered, and potential best-practice guidelines are provided for disordered eating and body image concerns since physique athletes present with higher inci

--- 69c1af0e seq6461 [enriched]
Y:2005 T:['Clinical Trial', 'Journal Article', 'Multicenter Study', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', 'Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't", "Research Support, U.S. Gov't, P.H.S."]
TITLE: Effect of intensive lipid lowering, with or without antioxidant vitamins, compared with moderate lipid lowering on myocardial ischemia in patients with stable coronary artery disease: the Vascular Basis for the Treatment of Myocardial Ischemia Study.
ABS: <h4>Background</h4>Lipid lowering with statins prevents adverse cardiac events. Both lipid-lowering and antioxidant therapies may favorably affect vasomotor function and thereby improve ischemia.<h4>Methods and results</h4>In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, 300 patients with stable coronary disease, a positive exercise treadmill test, 48-hour ambulatory ECG with > or =1 episode of ischemia, and fasting total cholesterol of 180 to 250 mg/dL were assigned to 1-year treatment with intensive atorvastatin to reduce LDL to <80 mg/dL (n=96), intensive atorvastatin to reduce LDL to <80 mg/dL plus antioxidant vitamins C (1000 mg/d) and E (800 mg/d) (n=101), or diet and low-dose lovastatin, if needed, to reduce LDL to <130 mg/dL (n=103; control group). Ischemia end points, including ambulatory ECG monitoring and exercise treadmill testing, and endothelial assessment using brachial artery flow-mediated dilation were obtained at baseline and at 6 and 12 months. Baseline characteristics were similar in all groups. LDL decreased from approximately 153 mg/dL at baseline in the 2 atorvastatin groups to approximately 83 mg/dL at 12 months (each P<0.0001) and from 147 to 120 mg/dL in the control group (P<0.0001). During ambulatory ECG monitoring, mean number of ischemic episodes per 48 hours decreased 31% to 61% in each group (each P<0.001; P=0.15 across groups), without a change in daily heart rate activity. Mean duration of ischemia for 48 hours decreased 26% to 62% in 

--- a58b5180 seq6462 [enriched]
Y:2021 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial']
TITLE: Time-Limited Eating and Continuous Glucose Monitoring in Adolescents with Obesity: A Pilot Study.
ABS: Due to its simplicity, time-limited eating (TLE) may represent a more feasible approach for treating adolescents with obesity compared to other caloric restriction regimens. This pilot study examines the feasibility and safety of TLE combined with continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) in adolescents. Fifty adolescents with BMI ≥95th percentile were recruited to complete a 12-week study. All received standard nutritional counseling, wore a CGM daily, and were randomized to: (1) Prolonged eating window: 12 h eating/12 h fasting + blinded CGM; (2) TLE (8 h eating/16 h fasting, 5 days per week) + blinded CGM; (3) TLE + real-time CGM feedback. Recruitment, retention, and adherence were recorded as indicators of feasibility. Weight loss, dietary intake, physical activity, eating behaviors, and quality of life over the course of the intervention were explored as secondary outcomes. Forty-five participants completed the study (16.4 ± 1.3 years, 64% female, 49% Hispanic, 75% public insurance). There was high adherence to prescribed eating windows (TLE 5.2 d/wk [SD 1.1]; control 6.1 d/wk [SD 1.4]) and daily CGM wear (5.85 d/wk [SD 4.8]). Most of the adolescents (90%) assigned to TLE reported that limiting their eating window and wearing a CGM was feasible without negative impact on daily functioning or adverse events. There were no between-group difference in terms of weight loss, energy intake, quality of life, physical activity, or eating behaviors. TLE combined with CGM appears feasib

--- 9553591e seq6463 [enriched]
Y:1989 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, U.S. Gov't, P.H.S."]
TITLE: Immunological characterization and immunocytochemical localization of oviduct-specific glycoproteins in the baboon (Papio anubis).
ABS: Oviducts obtained from estradiol-treated ovariectomized baboons synthesize and release a family of high mol wt (100,000-130,000) glycoproteins during short term explant culture. The objective of this study was to make a polyclonal antibody to these glycoproteins and then use the antibody to determine the presence of the glycoproteins in oviduct flushings, tissue culture media, and tissues obtained from cycling and steroid-treated baboons. Oviduct culture medium proteins from estradiol-treated baboons were separated on one-dimensional polyacrylamide gels and transferred to nitrocellulose membranes. The region containing the glycoproteins was cut out, solubilized in dimethylsulfoxide, mixed with Freund's adjuvant, and injected at 2-week intervals into a male rabbit. The anti-serum used in this study was obtained 6 weeks after the initial injection and cross-reacted with antigens on Western blots of oviduct flushings and oviduct culture media obtained from follicular stage and estradiol-treated baboons. The antigens were absent in oviduct flushings obtained from luteal stage, ovariectomized and estradiol-primed baboons treated with estradiol and progesterone or progesterone alone. The antigens were not detected on Western blots of other reproductive and nonreproductive tract culture media or in serum obtained from follicular stage or estradiol-treated baboons. Immunoperoxidase staining was limited to discrete granules in the apical cytoplasm of secretory cells in oviducts obtain

--- ecbf4fd0 seq6464 [enriched]
Y:2019 T:['Clinical Trial Protocol', 'Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Strength training as a supplemental therapy for androgen deficiency of the aging male (ADAM): study protocol for a three-arm clinical trial.
ABS: <h4>Introduction</h4>Androgen deficiency of the ageing male is a clinical syndrome resulting from the low production of androgens (testosterone levels <6.9 nmol/L) with symptoms including decline in lean mass, muscle strength, increases in body mass and overall fat mass. The aim of the study is to examine the effect of a 12 week strength training intervention on body composition, physical function, muscle cellular and molecular and selected biochemical markers of metabolic health in hypogonadal patients.<h4>Methods and analysis</h4>The study is three-group controlled 12-week experiment to assess the effect of strength training on hypogonadal patients with testosterone replacement therapy and newly diagnosed males without testosterone replacement therapy. Age matched healthy eugonadal males are also engaged in strength training. Lean mass is used to determine sample size indicating, that 22 subjects per group will be sufficient to detect intervention related changes at the power of 0.90. All outcomes are collected before the intervention (pre-intervention assessments) and after the intervention (post-intervention assessments). Clinical outcomes are body composition (lean mass, fat mass and total body mass) measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, physical functioning assessed by physical tests and psychosocial functioning. The most important haematological and biochemical parameters included are glucose, total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high-density

--- bd7ca3e8 seq6465 [enriched]
Y:2014 T:['Journal Article', 'Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural']
TITLE: Adolescent consumption of sports and energy drinks: linkages to higher physical activity, unhealthy beverage patterns, cigarette smoking, and screen media use.
ABS: <h4>Objective</h4>To examine patterns of adolescent sports and energy drink (SED) consumption and identify behavioral correlates.<h4>Design</h4>Data were drawn from Eating and Activity in Teens, a population-based study.<h4>Setting</h4>Adolescents from 20 middle and high schools in Minneapolis/St Paul, MN completed classroom-administered surveys.<h4>Participants</h4>A total of 2,793 adolescents (53.2% girls) in grades 6-12.<h4>Variables measured</h4>Beverage patterns; breakfast frequency; moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA); media use; sleep; and cigarette smoking.<h4>Analysis</h4>Linear and logistic regression models were used to estimate associations between health behaviors and SED consumption, adjusting for demographics.<h4>Results</h4>Over a third of adolescents consumed sports drinks and 14.7% consumed energy drinks at least once a week. Among boys and girls, both sports and energy drink consumption were related to higher video game use; sugar-sweetened beverage and fruit juice intake; and smoking (P < .05). Sports drink consumption was also significantly related to higher MVPA and organized sport participation for both genders (P < .01).<h4>Conclusions and implications</h4>Although sports drink consumption was associated with higher MVPA, adolescents should be reminded of recommendations to consume these beverages only after vigorous, prolonged activity. There is also a need for future interventions designed to reduce SED consumption, to address the clusterin

--- bef90484 seq6466 [enriched]
Y:2021 T:['Journal Article', 'Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: NF-κB responds to absolute differences in cytokine concentrations.
ABS: Cells receive a wide range of dynamic signaling inputs during immune regulation, but how gene regulatory networks measure such dynamic inputs is not well understood. Here, we used microfluidic single-cell analysis and mathematical modeling to study how the NF-κB pathway responds to immune inputs that vary over time such as increasing, decreasing, or fluctuating cytokine signals. We found that NF-κB activity responded to the absolute difference in cytokine concentration and not to the concentration itself. Our analyses revealed that negative feedback by the regulatory proteins A20 and IκBα enabled differential responses to changes in cytokine dose by providing a short-term memory of previous cytokine concentrations and by continuously resetting kinase cycling and receptor abundance. Investigation of NF-κB target gene expression showed that cells exhibited distinct transcriptional responses under different dynamic cytokine profiles. Our results demonstrate how cells use simple network motifs and transcription factor dynamics to efficiently extract information from complex signaling environments.

--- 913d7c6c seq6467 [enriched]
Y:2021 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Characterization of individuals with osteoarthritis in the United States and their use of prescription and over-the-counter supplements.
ABS: <h4>Purpose</h4>Osteoarthritis (OA) is a frequently occurring, chronic condition; however, few studies describe the clinical characteristics of individuals with OA and the treatments they use to manage their symptoms. We conducted a study to characterize the OA population in the US and describe the nonsurgical management used by this population based on consumer research data collected through an online survey.<h4>Methods</h4>Data from the 2017 US National Health and Wellness Survey (NHWS) for adults aged ≥35 years were used to evaluate the relationship between OA and certain study participant characteristics and to identify the most commonly used treatment options. NHWS data were collected through a survey of individuals drawn from the internet panel maintained by Lightspeed Research (Bridgewater, New Jersey) and its panel partners. Weighted estimates were generated using data from the 2016 Current Population Survey (Annual Demographics File) of the US Census Bureau. Comparisons between the general and OA populations were made based on body mass index (BMI), exercise frequency, and comorbid diagnoses of hypertension or diabetes. Among the OA population, the use of dietary supplements, prescription or over-the-counter (OTC) treatments with chondroitin with or without glucosamine (Ch ± Gl), prescription treatment by time since OA diagnosis, and utilization of a physical therapist were also recorded.<h4>Results</h4>The prevalence of OA in the overall population was 17.6 % and w

--- 21912670 seq6468 [inline]
Y:2023 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Total Energy Expenditure and Nutritional Intake in Continuous Multiday Ultramarathon Events.
ABS: Continuous multiday ultramarathon competitions are increasingly popular and impose extreme energetic and nutritional demands on competitors. However, few data have been published on energy expenditure during these events. Here, we report doubly labeled water-derived measures of total energy expenditure (in kilocalories per day) and estimated physical activity level (PAL: total energy expenditure/basal metabolic rate) collected from five elite and subelite finishers (four males and one female, age 34.6 ± 4.9 years)-and nutritional intake data from the winner-of the Cocodona 250, a ∼402-km race in Arizona, and from a fastest-known-time record (one male, age 30 years) on the ∼1,315-km Arizona Trail. PAL during these events exceeded four times basal metabolic rate (Cocodona range: 4.34-6.94; Arizona Trail: 5.63). Combining the results with other doubly labeled water-derived total energy expenditure data from ultraendurance events show a strong inverse relationship between event duration and PAL (r2 = .68, p < .0001). Cocodona race duration was inversely, though not significantly, associated with PAL (r2 = .70, p = .08). Water turnover varied widely between athletes and was not explained by PAL or body mass. The Cocodona race winner met ∼53% of energy demand via dietary intake, 85.6% of which was carbohydrate, while ∼47% of energy demand was met via catabolism of body energy stores. Together, these results illustrate the energetic deficits incurred during competitive continuous mu

--- 1916b321 seq6469 [enriched]
Y:2010 T:['Historical Article', 'Journal Article']
TITLE: Paleolithic nutrition: twenty-five years later.
ABS: A quarter century has passed since the first publication of the evolutionary discordance hypothesis, according to which departures from the nutrition and activity patterns of our hunter-gatherer ancestors have contributed greatly and in specifically definable ways to the endemic chronic diseases of modern civilization. Refinements of the model have changed it in some respects, but anthropological evidence continues to indicate that ancestral human diets prevalent during our evolution were characterized by much lower levels of refined carbohydrates and sodium, much higher levels of fiber and protein, and comparable levels of fat (primarily unsaturated fat) and cholesterol. Physical activity levels were also much higher than current levels, resulting in higher energy throughput. We said at the outset that such evidence could only suggest testable hypotheses and that recommendations must ultimately rest on more conventional epidemiological, clinical, and laboratory studies. Such studies have multiplied and have supported many aspects of our model, to the extent that in some respects, official recommendations today have targets closer to those prevalent among hunter-gatherers than did comparable recommendations 25 years ago. Furthermore, doubts have been raised about the necessity for very low levels of protein, fat, and cholesterol intake common in official recommendations. Most impressively, randomized controlled trials have begun to confirm the value of hunter-gatherer diets i

--- cdcc1dda seq6470 [enriched]
Y:2016 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial']
TITLE: An Intervention with Mineral Water Decreases Cardiometabolic Risk Biomarkers. A Crossover, Randomised, Controlled Trial with Two Mineral Waters in Moderately Hypercholesterolaemic Adults.
ABS: Water intake is essential for health maintenance and disease prevention. The effects of an intervention with two mineral waters, sodium-bicarbonated mineral water (BW) or control mineral water low in mineral content (CW), on cardiometabolic risk biomarkers were studied. In a randomised-controlled crossover-trial, sixty-four moderately hypercholesterolaemic adults were randomly assigned to consume 1 L/day of either BW (sodium, 1 g/L; bicarbonate, 2 g/L) or CW with the main meals for eight weeks, separated by an eight-week washout period. Blood lipids, lipid oxidation, glucose, insulin, aldosterone, urine pH, urinary electrolytes, blood pressure, body weight, fluid intake, energy, and nutrients from total diet and beverages were determined. Total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and glucose decreased (p < 0.01), oxidised LDL tended to decrease (p = 0.073), and apolipoprotein B increased during the intervention, without water type effect. Energy and carbohydrates from beverages decreased since soft drinks and fruit juice consumptions decreased throughout the trial. BW increased urinary pH (p = 0.006) and reduced calcium/creatinine excretion (p = 0.011). Urinary potassium/creatinine decreased with both waters. Consumption of 1 L/day of mineral water with the main meals reduces cardiometabolic risk biomarkers, likely to be attributed to a replacement of soft drinks by water. In addition, BW does not affect blood pressure and exerts a moderate alkalizing effect in the body.

--- d76e7682 seq6471 [enriched]
Y:1992 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: High-resolution capillary electrophoretic analysis of DNA in free solution.
ABS: Capillary electrophoretic separations of double-stranded DNA fragments in the size range of 20-2200 base pairs were achieved in less than 20 min with the use of a Tris-borate buffer containing hydroxyethylcellulose. Analyses were carried out in both uncoated and phenylmethyl-coated capillaries of fused silica with internal diameters of 50 and 100 microns, respectively, and an effective column length of 50 cm. The addition of ethidium bromide resulted in an improved resolution of double-stranded DNA fragments, thereby permitting even the separation of fragments differing only 1-2 base pairs in length. Moreover, resolution was found to be linearly proportional to the size of the cation used to adjust ionic strength Cs+ greater than RB+ greater than K+ greater than Na+ greater than Li+. However, the analysis times also increased with increasing cation size due to a decrease in electroosmotic flow. Elution order was verified by spiking restriction digests with slab gel electrophoretically purified components. Subsequently, the described system was applied to the detection and quantitation of an mRNA transcript of the androgen receptor, which had been amplified by polymerase chain reaction and purified by size-exclusion chromatography to avoid peak broadening due to conductivity differences between sample and running buffer. Since the actual amount of DNA introduced into the capillary cannot be defined, molar ratio-peak area ratios of the polymerase chain reaction product to vario

--- 41ec4a26 seq6472 [enriched]
Y:2002 T:['Clinical Trial', 'Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't", "Research Support, U.S. Gov't, P.H.S."]
TITLE: High-soluble-fiber foods in conjunction with a telephone-based, personalized behavior change support service result in favorable changes in lipids and lifestyles after 7 weeks.
ABS: <h4>Objective</h4>To evaluate whether an intervention of foods high in soluble fiber from psyllium and/or oats plus a telephone-based, personalized behavior change support service improves serum lipids and elicits cholesterol-managing lifestyle changes vs usual care.<h4>Design</h4>7-week randomized, controlled intervention.<h4>Subjects/setting</h4>150 moderately hypercholesterolemic men and women, age range 25 to 70 years.<h4>Intervention</h4>The intervention group consumed 4 servings/day of high-fiber foods and had weekly telephone conversations with a personal coach who offered support and guidance in making lifestyle changes consistent with the National Cholesterol Education Program's (NCEP) cholesterol-lowering guidelines. The usual care group received a handout describing the NCEP Step-1 diet.<h4>Main outcome measures</h4>Serum lipids and lipoproteins and self-reported lifestyle changes.<h4>Statistical analyses</h4>For physiologic and dietary changes, mixed linear models for repeated measures were applied. Models were simplified using analysis of covariance where age in years was the covariate. Traditional general linear models were used to assess lifestyle changes.<h4>Results</h4>In the intervention group total cholesterol (TC) decreased 5.6%, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol 7.1%, LDL/high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol ratio 5.6%, and triglycerides (TG) 14.2% (P<.0167); decreases in TC and LDL were significantly different from the usual care group. In 

--- da371c41 seq6473 [enriched]
Y:2014 T:['Journal Article', 'Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Alcohol and male reproductive health: a cross-sectional study of 8344 healthy men from Europe and the USA.
ABS: <h4>Study question</h4>Is there an association between alcohol intake and semen quality and serum reproductive hormones among healthy men from the USA and Europe?<h4>Summary answer</h4>Moderate alcohol intake is not adversely associated with semen quality in healthy men, whereas it was associated with higher serum testosterone levels.<h4>What is known already</h4>High alcohol intake has been associated with a wide range of diseases. However, few studies have examined the correlation between alcohol and reproductive function and most have been conducted in selected populations of infertile men or have a small sample size and the results have been contradictory.<h4>Study design, size, duration</h4>A coordinated international cross-sectional study among 8344 healthy men. A total of 1872 fertile men aged 18-45 years (with pregnant partners) from four European cities and four US states, and 6472 young men (most with unknown fertility) aged 18-28 years from the general population in six European countries were recruited.<h4>Participants/materials, setting, methods</h4>The men were recruited using standardized protocols. A semen analysis was performed and men completed a questionnaire on health and lifestyle, including their intake of beer, wine and liquor during the week prior to their visit. Semen quality (semen volume, sperm concentration, percentage motile and morphologically normal sperm) and serum reproductive hormones (FSH, LH, testosterone, sex hormone-binding globulin, and 

--- 0b562b60 seq6474 [enriched]
Y:2015 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Origin and alteration of organic matter in termite mounds from different feeding guilds of the Amazon rainforests.
ABS: The impact of termites on nutrient cycling and tropical soil formation depends on their feeding habits and related material transformation. The identification of food sources, however, is difficult, because they are variable and changed by termite activity and nest construction. Here, we related the sources and alteration of organic matter in nests from seven different termite genera and feeding habits in the Terra Firme rainforests to the properties of potential food sources soil, wood, and microepiphytes. Chemical analyses comprised isotopic composition of C and N, cellulosic (CPS), non-cellulosic (NCPS), and N-containing saccharides, and molecular composition screening using pyrolysis-field ionization mass spectrometry (Py-FIMS). The isotopic analysis revealed higher soil δ13C (-27.4‰) and δ15N (6.6‰) values in nests of wood feeding Nasutitermes and Cornitermes than in wood samples (δ13C = -29.1‰, δ15N = 3.4‰), reflecting stable-isotope enrichment with organic matter alterations during or after nest construction. This result was confirmed by elevated NCPS:CPS ratios, indicating a preferential cellulose decomposition in the nests. High portions of muramic acid (MurAc) pointed to the participation of bacteria in the transformation processes. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (MDS) revealed increasing geophagy in the sequence Termes < Embiratermes < Anoplotermes and increasing xylophagy for Cornitermes < Nasutitermes., and that the nest material of Constrictotermes was simi

--- 403c49a1 seq6475 [inline]
Y:2022 T:['Journal Article', 'research-article']
TITLE: Hungarian male water polo players' body composition can predict specific playing positions and highlight different nutritional needs for optimal sports performance.
ABS: <h4>Background</h4>Water polo is unique among aquatic-and generally other-sports as it includes cyclic elements typical in swimming and acyclic elements occurring mainly in ball games. Moreover, water polo demands high level of technical and tactical skills. Players need an optimal nutritional and physical condition to achieve high athletic performance, which is to a great extend influenced by nutritional habits. We aim to highlight possible shortfalls in players' nutritional intake in relation to positions played within the team.<h4>Methods</h4>In the present study, we determined the anthropometric and body composition characteristics, dietary habits and laboratory parameters of elite adult male water polo players (n = 19) before the start of the championship and at the end of the regular season, which meant a 4-month intervention period. Analyses of body composition characteristics and nutritional habits were performed using bioimpedance analyzer InBody 770 and a 3-day nutrition diary, respectively. Paired-sample t-test were used to determine the differences between the variables measured before and after the championship. Correlations between the anthropometric and body composition characteristics and different serum parameters were analyzed using linear correlation calculation. K-mean cluster analysis was performed using the anthropometric and body composition characteristics of the athletes.<h4>Results</h4>Based on anthropometric and body composition characteristics, pla

[p259 unjudged: 25 of 25]