--- 0fce4075 seq6376 [enriched]
Y:2004 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't", "Research Support, U.S. Gov't, P.H.S."]
TITLE: Phenotypic characterization of human corneal epithelial cells expanded ex vivo from limbal explant and single cell cultures.
ABS: Cultivated human corneal epithelial cells have been successfully used for corneal reconstruction. Explant and single cell systems are currently used for human corneal epithelial cultivation. This study was conducted to characterize the phenotypes of human corneal epithelial cells expanded ex vivo by these two culture systems with regard to their growth potential, morphology and antigen expression patterns. Human corneal epithelial cells were expanded by limbal explant culture or limbal single cell suspension culture on a mitomycin C treated 3T3 fibroblast feeder layer. The phenotypes of primary cultured cells were evaluated by morphology and immunohistochemical staining with antibodies for proposed keratinocyte stem cell markers (p63, EGFR, K19 and integrin beta1) and differentiation markers (K3, involucrin and gap junction protein connexin 43). BrdU labeling was performed to identify the label-retaining cells. Human corneal epithelial cells were grown from limbal tissues preserved as long as 16 days by both culture systems. The growth rate depended on the tissue freshness, the time from death to preservation and the time from death to culture, but not on the donor age. Cell growth was observed in 96.2% (n = 43) of single cell suspension cultures and in 90.8% (n = 213) of explant cultures. The cell expansion was confluent in 10-14 days in single cell suspension cultures and 14-21 days in explant cultures. The cell morphology in single cell suspension culture was smaller, more

--- 944b9795 seq6377 [inline]
Y:2009 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Nutrient intake and blood iron status of male collegiate soccer players.
ABS: The purpose of this study was: 1) to collect baseline data on nutrient intake in order to advise athletes about nutrition practices that might enhance performance, and 2) to evaluate the dietary iron intake and blood iron status of Japanese collegiate soccer players. The subjects were 31 soccer players and 15 controls. Dietary information was obtained with a food frequency questionnaire. The mean carbohydrate (6.9 g.kg-1 BW) and protein (1.3 g/kg) intakes of the soccer players were marginal in comparisons with recommended targets. The mean intakes of calcium, magnesium, vitamin A, B1, B2, and C were lower than the respective Japanese recommended dietary allowances (RDAs) or adequate dietary intakes in the soccer players. The mean intakes of green and other vegetables, milk and dairy products, fruits, and eggs were lower than the recommended targets. Thus, we recommended athletes to increase the intake of these foodstuffs along with slight increase in carbohydrate and lean meat. The mean intake of iron was higher than the respective RDA in the soccer players. A high prevalence of hemolysis (71%) in the soccer players was found. None of the soccer players and controls had anemia. Two soccer players had iron depletion, while none was found in the controls. In those players who had iron deficiency, the training load need to be lowered and/or iron intake may be increased.

--- 50bd1ef5 seq6378 [inline]
Y:2018 T:['Journal Article', 'research-article']
TITLE: Assessment of Dietary Intake of Long-Distance Race Car Drivers-A Pilot Study.
ABS: Long-distance race car drivers are classified as athletes. The sport is physically and mentally demanding, requiring long hours of practice. Therefore, optimal dietary intake is essential for health and performance of the athlete. The aim of the study was to evaluate dietary intake and to compare the data with dietary recommendations for athletes and for the general adult population according to the German Nutrition Society (DGE). A 24-h dietary recall during a competition preparation phase was obtained from 16 male race car drivers (28.3 ± 6.1 years, body mass index (BMI) of 22.9 ± 2.3 kg/m²). The mean intake of energy, nutrients, water and alcohol was recorded. The mean energy, vitamin B₂, vitamin E, folate, fiber, calcium, water and alcohol intake were 2124 ± 814 kcal/day, 1.3 ± 0.5 mg/day, 12.5 ± 9.5 mg/day, 231.0 ± 90.9 ug/day, 21.4 ± 9.4 g/day, 1104 ± 764 mg/day, 3309 ± 1522 mL/day and 0.8 ± 2.5 mL/day respectively. Our study indicated that many of the nutrients studied, including energy and carbohydrate, were below the recommended dietary intake for both athletes and the DGE.

--- 0850775f seq6379 [enriched]
Y:2022 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: "No Child or Adult Would Ever Probably Choose to Have 16 Teaspoons of Sugar": A Preliminary Study of Parents' Responses to Sugary Drink Warning Label Options.
ABS: Front-of-pack (FoP) warning labels are a viable policy option with the potential to inform consumer choice and assist in reducing sugar-sweetened beverage (SSB) consumption as part of a multi-faceted approach. This study explored parents' perceptions and understanding of a range of SSB warning labels. Focus groups <i>(n</i> = 12) with 82 parents of school-aged children were conducted, stratified according to education level, sex and location. Health effects, exercise equivalents, sugar content (teaspoons in text and pictograms, "high in") and energy content labels were shown. Through thematic analysis we identified three themes. Theme 1 related to perceptions of effectiveness of labels, underpinned by four subthemes: perceptions of labels as credible, informative and useful, personally relevant and having the potential to change be haviour. Theme 2 related to participants finding opportunities for self-exemption (e.g., physically active) and message rejection (e.g., misinterpretation). Theme 3 encompassed the potential negative consequences of some labels (e.g., body image concerns). The text teaspoons label was perceived most favourably across all themes, with minimal negative issues raised. These results provide in-depth insight into potential responses to labelling as a policy intervention, providing important guidance for the development of labels to ensure optimal message content and framing for future testing and subsequent implementation.

--- d3361c3d seq6380 [enriched]
Y:2023 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Uncovering personalized glucose responses and circadian rhythms from multiple wearable biosensors with Bayesian dynamical modeling.
ABS: Wearable biosensors and smartphone applications can measure physiological variables over multiple days in free-living conditions. We measure food and drink ingestion, glucose dynamics, physical activity, heart rate (HR), and heart rate variability (HRV) in 25 healthy participants over 14 days. We develop a Bayesian inference framework to learn personal parameters that quantify circadian rhythms and physiological responses to external stressors. Modeling the effects of ingestion events on glucose levels reveals that slower glucose decay kinetics elicit larger postprandial glucose spikes, and we uncover a circadian baseline rhythm for glucose with high amplitudes in some individuals. Physical activity and circadian rhythms explain as much as 40%-65% of the HR variance, whereas the variance explained for HRV is more heterogeneous across individuals. A more complex model incorporating activity, HR, and HRV explains up to 15% of additional glucose variability, highlighting the relevance of integrating multiple biosensors to better predict glucose dynamics.

--- 400b892f seq6381 [enriched]
Y:2015 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Breaking up of prolonged sitting over three days sustains, but does not enhance, lowering of postprandial plasma glucose and insulin in overweight and obese adults.
ABS: To compare the cumulative (3-day) effect of prolonged sitting on metabolic responses during a mixed meal tolerance test (MTT), with sitting that is regularly interrupted with brief bouts of light-intensity walking. Overweight/obese adults (n=19) were recruited for a randomized, 3-day, outpatient, cross-over trial involving: (1) 7-h days of uninterrupted sitting (SIT); and (2) 7-h days of sitting with light-intensity activity breaks [BREAKS; 2-min of treadmill walking (3.2 km/h) every 20 min (total: 17 breaks/day)]. On days 1 and 3, participants underwent a MTT (75 g of carbohydrate, 50 g of fat) and the incremental area under the curve (iAUC) was calculated from hourly blood samples. Generalized estimating equation (GEE) models were adjusted for gender, body mass index (BMI), energy intake, treatment order and pre-prandial values to determine effects of time, condition and time × condition. The glucose iAUC was 1.3 ± 0.5 and 1.5 ± 0.5 mmol·h·l(-1) (mean differences ± S.E.M.) higher in SIT compared with BREAKS on days 1 and 3 respectively (condition effect: P=0.001), with no effect of time (P=0.48) or time × condition (P=0.8). The insulin iAUC was also higher on both days in SIT (day 1: ∆151 ± 73, day 3: ∆91 ± 73 pmol·h·l(-1), P=0.01), with no effect of time (P=0.52) or time × condition (P=0.71). There was no between-treatment difference in triglycerides (triacylglycerols) iAUC. There were significant between-condition effects but no temporal change in metabolic responses to M

--- 5f82fde6 seq6382 [enriched]
Y:2020 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Tune out and turn in: the influence of television viewing and sleep on lipid profiles in children.
ABS: <h4>Background/objectives</h4>Physical activity is beneficial to lipid profiles; however, the association between sedentary behavior and sleep and pediatric dyslipidemia remains unclear. We aimed to investigate whether sedentary behavior or sleep predicted lipid profiles in children over a 2-year period.<h4>Subjects/methods</h4>Six hundered and thirty children from the QUALITY cohort, with at least one obese parent, were assessed prospectively at ages 8-10 and 10-12 years. Measures of sedentary behavior included self-reported TV viewing and computer/video game use. Seven-day accelerometry was used to derive sedentary behavior and sleep duration. Adiposity was assessed using DEXA scans. Twenty-four-hour dietary recalls yielded estimates of carbohydrate and fat intake. Outcomes included fasting total cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL and LDL-cholesterol. Multivariable models were adjusted for adiposity and diet.<h4>Results</h4>At both Visit 1 (median age 9.6 year) and Visit 2 (median age 11.6 year), children were of normal weight (55%), overweight (22%), or obese (22%). Every additional hour of TV viewing at Visit 1 was associated with a 7.0% triglyceride increase (95% CI: 3.5, 10.6; P < 0.01) and 2.6% HDL decrease (95% CI: -4.2, -0.9; P < 0.01) at Visit 2; findings remained significant after adjusting for adiposity and diet. Every additional hour of sleep at Visit 1 predicted a 4.8% LDL decrease (95% CI: -9.0, -0.5; P = 0.03) at Visit 2, after adjusting for fat intake; this asso

--- 42581561 seq6383 [enriched]
Y:2018 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, U.S. Gov't, Non-P.H.S."]
TITLE: Appetite Suppression and Altered Food Preferences Coincide with Changes in Appetite-Mediating Hormones During Energy Deficit at High Altitude, But Are Not Affected by Protein Intake.
ABS: Karl, J. Philip, Renee E. Cole, Claire E. Berryman, Graham Finlayson, Patrick N. Radcliffe, Matthew T. Kominsky, Nancy E. Murphy, John W. Carbone, Jennifer C. Rood, Andrew J. Young, and Stefan M. Pasiakos. Appetite suppression and altered food preferences coincide with changes in appetite-mediating hormones during energy deficit at high altitude, but are not affected by protein intake. High Alt Med Biol. 19:156-169, 2018.-Anorexia and unintentional body weight loss are common during high altitude (HA) sojourn, but underlying mechanisms are not fully characterized, and the impact of dietary macronutrient composition on appetite regulation at HA is unknown. This study aimed to determine the effects of a hypocaloric higher protein diet on perceived appetite and food preferences during HA sojourn and to examine longitudinal changes in perceived appetite, appetite mediating hormones, and food preferences during acclimatization and weight loss at HA. Following a 21-day level (SL) period, 17 unacclimatized males ascended to and resided at HA (4300 m) for 22 days. At HA, participants were randomized to consume measured standard-protein (1.0 g protein/kg/d) or higher protein (2.0 g/kg/d) hypocaloric diets (45% carbohydrate, 30% energy restriction) and engaged in prescribed physical activity to induce an estimated 40% energy deficit. Appetite, food preferences, and appetite-mediating hormones were measured at SL and at the beginning and end of HA. Diet composition had no effect on any 

--- 408ca109 seq6384 [inline]
Y:2025 T:['Preprint']
TITLE: Selecting and Specifying Target Behaviours to Enable Nutritional Adherence in Male Academy Footballers
ABS: <title>Abstract</title>  <p>  Background Adolescent male academy footballers often fail to meet nutritional recommendations, risking impaired growth, health, and performance. Therefore, this study, guided by the Behaviour Change Wheel, aimed to select and specify dietary behaviours to underpin a sport nutrition service within an English Football League Championship academy. Two Nominal Group Technique (NGT) workshops (mean duration = 2 h 20 min) with four experienced sport nutritionists, either currently (n = 3) or recently (n = 1) employed at the club, were conducted. Participants generated, ranked, and refined behaviours through structured group discussion, and a follow-up questionnaire. Audio data were descriptively analysed to provide context around behaviour selection and prioritisation. Results Twenty-six behaviours were generated, with a prioritised top 10 identified. The three most important were: 1) consuming ≥3 main meals (≥900 kcal or 13 kcal·kg⁻¹) and 2 snacks daily (≥350 kcal or 5 kcal·kg⁻¹); 2) consuming ≥3 carbohydrate portions (40–50g or 0.5–0.75 g·kg⁻¹) per main meal, and ≥1 per snack; and 3) consuming a protein portion (25–30g or 0.4 g·kg⁻¹) at ≥4 eating occasions daily. These behaviours collectively formed the “meal frequency and portion size guidance.” Other behaviours ranked in the top 10 included fruit and vegetable intake, attendance at club meals, hydration, and cooking from the club recipe app. Practitioners reported difficulty conceptualising behavio

--- 049d95bf seq6385 [enriched]
Y:2019 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Agreement between the total energy expenditure calculated with accelerometry data and the BMR yielded by predictive equations v. the total energy expenditure obtained with doubly labelled water in low-income women with excess weight.
ABS: Low-income women are the group with the highest levels of obesity worldwide. In low-income settings, the use of predictive equations, which yield a measure of the individuals' BMR, is a feasible approach to estimate the individuals' total energy expenditure (TEE), using the factorial method (calculated-TEE = BMR × physical activity level), an important step of the obesity nutritional care. The present study aimed to identify the predictive equation that, in conjunction with metabolic equivalents of tasks (MET) data from accelerometers, yields the calculated-TEE with better agreement compared with the TEE measured by doubly labelled water (TEE-DLW). Forty-five women aged 19-45 years, with excess weight and mothers of undernourished children, were included. They received DLW to determine TEE (14 d); at the same time, they used triaxial accelerometers (7 d) to estimate their MET. The Bland-Altman method, paired-sample t tests, concordance correlation coefficient and root-mean-square error were used to assess the agreement. Maximum allowed differences were defined as 24 %, based on the within-variance coefficient of the energy intake of the sample. Eleven equations were studied. The calculated-TEE obtained by five equations showed non-significant bias: Dietary Reference Intake (Institute of Medicine (2005) Dietary Reference Intakes for Energy, Carbohydrate, Fiber, Fat, Fatty Acids, Cholesterol, Protein, and Amino Acids), FAO/WHO/UNU ((2001) Food and Nutrition Technical Report Ser

--- e1bcfd98 seq6386 [inline]
Y:2017 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: The effect of l-arginine supplementation on body composition and performance in male athletes: a double-blinded randomized clinical trial.
ABS: <h4>Background/objective</h4>Athletes used a lot of dietary supplements to achieve the more muscle mass and improve their athletic performance. The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of l-arginine supplementation on sport performance and body composition in male soccer players.<h4>Subjects/methods</h4>This double-blinded, randomized and placebo-controlled trial was conducted on 56 male soccer players, with age range of 16-35, who referred to sport clubs in Isfahan, Iran. Subjects were randomly assigned to either l-arginine or placebo groups. Athletes received daily either 2 g per day l-arginine supplement or the same amount of placebo (maltodextrin) for 45 days. Sport performance and also body mass index (BMI), body fat mass (BFM) and lean body mass (LBM) were measured at the beginning and end of the study. Also, 3-day dietary records were collected at three different time points (before, in the middle of, and at the end of the study).<h4>Results</h4>The mean age of subjects was 20.85±4.29 years. Sport performance (VO<sub>2</sub> max) significantly increased in l-arginine supplementation group (4.12±6.07) compared with placebo group (1.23±3.36) (P=0.03). This increase remained significant even after adjustment of baseline values, physical activity and usual dietary intake of subjects throughout the study. No significant effect of l-arginine supplementation was found on weight, BMI, BFM and LBM.<h4>Conclusions</h4>l-arginine supplementation (2 g per day) cou

--- 43ca524d seq6387 [inline]
Y:2008 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Body composition and nutritional profile of male adolescent tennis players.
ABS: In this cross-sectional study, we evaluated the body composition and dietary intake of 44 adolescent tennis players. After being divided into two groups (age 10-13 years and age 14-18), the players had their weight, height, and sexual maturation assessed. Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry was used to assess body composition. Food intake was obtained from a non-consecutive 4-day food record. The data were analysed using the Virtual Nutri v.1.0 software and compared with the present recommendations for adolescent athletes or dietary reference intakes. Body mass index and body fat for tennis practice were adequate for 89% and 71% of the tennis players respectively, regardless of age group. A calorie deficit greater than 10% of energy expenditure was observed in 32% of the sample. Fifty percent of the athletes consumed carbohydrates in accordance with recommended values. Protein and lipid intakes were above recommended values, while fibre, calcium, potassium, magnesium, and folic acid intakes were below recommendation for 98%, 80%, 100%, 100%, and 98% of the tennis players respectively. The observed nutritional deficiencies represent an additional barrier for adolescents engaged in competitive sports to achieve an optimum nutrition to maintain growth, health, and performance.

--- 19bd0d83 seq6388 [enriched]
Y:1993 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Failure to reduce body water loss in cold-water immersion by glycerol ingestion.
ABS: The efficacy of ingesting an aqueous glycerol solution to enhance body water retention during prolonged cold-water dives was evaluated. Nine Naval Special Warfare divers performed a 3-h dive in 13 degrees C water. Divers were assigned to either a water-treatment group (WT) or a glycerol-treatment (GT) group. WT ingested 30 ml water/kg lean body mass (LBM). GT ingested a solution consisting of 1.2 ml glycerol/kg LBM and 30 ml water/kg LBM. Blood was drawn at prehydration, 90 min after hydration, and 20 min after the 3-h dive for serum glycerol, glucose, free fatty acids, lactate, and electrolyte determinations. Fluid intake and output was recorded and urine analyzed for osmolality, electrolytes, and specific gravity. Serum glycerol values in GT were 200 times greater at posthydration than prehydration and 100 times greater at postdive than at prehydration. Urine output, total body weight loss, and non-urine weight loss during posthydration and dive sampling periods were not significantly different between treatment groups. Hyperhydration with an aqueous glycerol solution of 1.2 ml glycerol/kg LBM seems ineffective in significantly reducing body water loss in divers during prolonged cold-water immersion.

--- 9ad3f5bb seq6389 [enriched]
Y:2002 T:['Clinical Trial', 'Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't", "Research Support, U.S. Gov't, P.H.S."]
TITLE: Baseline dietary fiber intake and colorectal adenoma recurrence in the wheat bran fiber randomized trial.
ABS: <h4>Background</h4>The Wheat Bran Fiber (WBF) trial was a double-blind, high-fiber versus low-fiber phase III intervention trial in which participants were randomly assigned to receive a cereal fiber supplement of either 2.0 g/day or 13.5 g/day to assess whether a high-fiber supplement could decrease risk of recurrent colorectal adenomas. Although no effect of the supplement on polyp recurrence was observed, participants consumed a baseline average of 17.5 grams of fiber per day, which may have been sufficient to protect against adenoma recurrence. Therefore, we examined whether baseline fiber intake affected colorectal adenoma recurrence or modified the effect of treatment group in the WBF trial participants.<h4>Methods</h4>Quartiles of baseline fiber intake were calculated on the basis of the distribution in the study population. Odds ratios (ORs) for adenoma recurrence were calculated using the lowest quartile of fiber intake as the reference. The effect of fiber from specific food sources on adenoma recurrence was also assessed. All statistical tests were two-sided.<h4>Results</h4>Adjusted ORs (95% confidence intervals) for adenoma recurrence were 0.79 (0.56 to 1.12), 0.76 (0.54 to 1.08), and 0.83 (0.57 to 1.19) for the second, third, and fourth quartiles, respectively. Fiber from the three primary food sources (fruits; breads, cereals and crackers; and vegetables) had no appreciable effect on adenoma recurrence. Baseline fiber intake also had little effect on adenoma rec

--- f3de4329 seq6390 [enriched]
Y:2016 T:['Journal Article', 'Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't", "Research Support, U.S. Gov't, Non-P.H.S."]
TITLE: The Transient Role for Calcium and Vitamin D during the Developmental Hair Follicle Cycle.
ABS: The role for 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 and/or calcium in hair follicle cycling is not clear despite their impact on keratinocyte differentiation. We found that calbindin-D9k null (knockout) pups generated from calbindin-D9k knockout females fed a vitamin D-deficient, low-calcium (0.47%) diet develop transient alopecia. The pups appear phenotypically normal until 13 days of age, after which the hair progressively sheds in a caudocephalic direction, resulting in truncal alopecia totalis by 20-23 days, with spontaneous recovery by 28 days. Histological studies showed markedly dystrophic hair follicles, loss of hair shafts with increased apoptosis, and hyperplastic epidermis during this time. Ha1 expression is lost during catagen in all mice but recovers more slowly in the knockout pups on the vitamin D-deficient, low-calcium diet. Keratin 1 expression is reduced throughout days 19-28. The expressions of involucrin, loricrin, and cathepsin L is initially increased by day 19 but subsequently falls below those of controls by day 23, as does that of desmoglein 3. Feeding the mothers a high-vitamin D/high-calcium (2%)/lactose (20%) diet lessens the phenotype, and knockout pups fostered to mothers fed a normal diet do not develop alopecia. Our results show that in calbindin-D9k knockout pups, a maternal vitamin D-deficient/low-calcium diet leads to transient noncicatricial alopecia.

--- 2ea32174 seq6391 [inline]
Y:2008 T:['Comparative Study', 'Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Dietary intake and body composition of prepubescent female aesthetic athletes.
ABS: The purpose of this study was to assess dietary intake and body composition of prepubescent girls competing in 3 aesthetic sports (artistic and rhythmic gymnastics and ballet). Because physiological demands of ballet training are similar to those in other aesthetic sports, ballet dancers were, for the purpose of this study, regarded as athletes. The sample consisted of 39 athletes (median age, 11 years, range 9-13) and 15 controls (median age, 11 years, range 10-12). Dietary intake was assessed using a quantitative food frequency questionnaire, and body composition, by means of anthropometry. There was no significant difference in total energy intake between groups, but there was a significant difference in energy substrate distribution. Artistic gymnasts reported significantly higher carbohydrate and lower fat contribution to total energy (57% +/- 6% and 29% +/- 5%, respectively) than rhythmic gymnasts (48% +/- 6% and 36% +/- 5%), ballet dancers (51% +/- 4% and 34% +/- 3%), or controls (51% +/- 5% and 34% +/- 4%). Relative to body weight, artistic gymnasts reported higher intake of carbohydrates (9.1 +/- 4.2 g/kg) than rhythmic gymnasts (5.6 +/- 3.1 g/kg), ballet dancers (6.6 +/- 2.5 g/kg), or controls (5.4 +/- 1.9 g/kg). Artistic gymnasts also had the lowest body-fat percentage among the groups. In all the groups mean reported daily intakes of most nutrients were higher than the current daily recommended intakes. The exceptions were dietary fiber and calcium. The proportion

--- 42640d23 seq6392 [enriched]
Y:2015 T:['article']
TITLE: Performance Enhancing Diets and the PRISE Protocol to Optimize Athletic Performance
ABS: The training regimens of modern-day athletes have evolved from the sole emphasis on a single fitness component (e.g., endurance athlete or resistance/strength athlete) to an integrative, multimode approach encompassing all four of the major fitness components: resistance (R), interval sprints (I), stretching (S), and endurance (E) training. Athletes rarely, if ever, focus their training on only one mode of exercise but instead routinely engage in a multimode training program. In addition, timed-daily protein (P) intake has become a hallmark for all athletes. Recent studies, including from our laboratory, have validated the effectiveness of this multimode paradigm (RISE) and protein-feeding regimen, which we have collectively termed PRISE. Unfortunately, sports nutrition recommendations and guidelines have lagged behind the PRISE integrative nutrition and training model and therefore limit an athletes' ability to succeed. Thus, it is the purpose of this review to provide a clearly defined roadmap linking specific performance enhancing diets (PEDs) with each PRISE component to facilitate optimal nourishment and ultimately optimal athletic performance.

--- df72822e seq6393 [enriched]
Y:2019 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Drivers of adolescent adiposity: Evidence from the Australian LOOK study.
ABS: <h4>Objectives</h4>To contribute to our understanding of the drivers of body composition during adolescence we sought to employ valid and reliable measures to investigate cross-sectional and longitudinal relationships between percentage body fat (%BF) and physical activity (PA), moderate and vigorous PA (MVPA), sedentary time (ST), total energy, sugar and fat intake.<h4>Design</h4>Longitudinal cohort study.<h4>Methods</h4>We measured 556 (289 male) participants at age 12.4 (SD 0.4) years, and 269 (123 males) at 16.3 (SD 0.4) years, for %BF (dual energy X-ray absorptiometry); habitual PA, MVPA, ST (accelerometry); and dietary intake ('multi-pass' weekday and weekend 24-h recall). Accounting for likely under-reporting of energy intake (Goldberg cut-off), general linear mixed modelling was used to generate relationships with %BF.<h4>Results</h4>Cross-sectional analyses indicated that 10min more MVPA per day was associated with 0.6 lower %BF (95%CI 0.4-0.9, p<0.001), and 10min less ST/day with 0.07 lower %BF (95%CI 0.00-0.15, p<0.001), independently of PA. In contrast, %BF was unrelated to total energy (p=0.4), sugar intake (p=0.2) or fat intake (p=0.9). Longitudinal analysis showed that if PA was increased by 3% (10,000 counts/day) over the 4 years, then %BF was reduced by 0.08 (95%CI 0.05-0.12, p=0.06).<h4>Conclusions</h4>The independent relationships of %BF with PA and ST, but absence of relationships with energy, sugar or fat intake, suggest that general community campaigns i

--- db461311 seq6394 [enriched]
Y:1996 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: A mathematical model for the spatio-temporal dynamics of intrinsic pathway of blood coagulation. II. Results.
ABS: This paper continues our study (see Part I) where we modeled the spatio-temporal dynamics of the intrinsic pathway of blood coagulation. Here, we analyzed this model and showed that it describes the threshold behavior of coagulation. When activation is subthreshold (which produces not more than 0.07 nM factor XIa at saturating free calcium concentrations of 2 mM or higher), the concentration of generated thrombin remains below 0.01 nM. At the abovethreshold activation corresponding to factor XIa exceeding 0.07 nM, the concentration of thrombin explosively increases and then abruptly decreases. The peak concentration of thrombin reaches hundreds nM. With respect to free calcium concentration, the system also behaves in a threshold manner. For activation corresponding to 0.3 nM factor XIa, the threshold concentration of free calcium where the outburst of explosive thrombin generation occur is equal to 0.21 mM. The model simulations are in a good agreement with the experimentally recorded kinetics of thrombin generation at different concentrations of free calcium (1). Analysis of the spatial dynamics of coagulation showed that if activation exceeded the threshold level at a certain point, the concentration wave of thrombin arises and propagates at a high speed from the activation zone. The parameters of this wave depends mainly on the efficiency of the feedback loops. The feedback loops through the backbone factors of the intrinsic pathway (autoactivation of factor X or activati

--- f3d3d8c7 seq6395 [enriched]
Y:1994 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Glucose tolerance and ageing.
ABS: Hyperglycaemia, impaired glucose tolerance and noninsulin dependent diabetes become progressively more common with advancing age. The mechanism is insensitivity to the actions of insulin at the postreceptor level. Inadequate secretion of insulin and decreased hepatic sensitivity to insulin's action in suppressing glucose output also occur. The age-related changes may be made worse by obesity, renal failure or the ingestion of certain drugs, or may be lessened by increased physical activity.

--- 202a0564 seq6396 [enriched]
Y:2009 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: SARCOSYL-PAGE: a new method for the detection of MIRCERA- and EPO-doping in blood.
ABS: The detection of doping with MIRCERA (the brand name for Continuous Erythropoietin Receptor Activator, or CERA) is hampered by the limited excretion of the rather large molecule (approximately 60 kDa) in urine. Blood (serum, plasma) in combination with sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) appears to be the ideal matrix for detecting all forms of doping with erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) because the apparent molecular masses of ESAs are different from the mass of human serum erythropoietin (shEPO). While SDS-PAGE has proven the most sensitive method for the detection of doping with Dynepo, the sensitivity of SDS-PAGE for MIRCERA is drastically decreased. By exchanging the SDS for SARCOSYL (SAR) in the sample and running buffers the sensitivity problem was solved. SARCOSYL, a methyl glycine-based anionic surfactant, is only binding to the protein-part of MIRCERA but not to its polyethylene glycol (PEG)-chain, while SDS binds to both parts. In consequence, the monoclonal anti-EPO antibody (clone AE7A5) no longer interacts with the fully SDS-solubilized MIRCERA molecules. Only those molecules that contain SDS bound to the protein-chain are detected. Due to the inability of SARCOSYL to solubilize PEG-molecules, MIRCERA can be detected on SARCOSYL-PAGE with the same sensitivity as non-PEGylated epoetins. In a typical SAR-PAGE experiment, 200 microL of serum are used, which allows the direct detection of MIRCERA, recombinant epoetins (such 

--- 3c378e0b seq6397 [inline]
Y:2011 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Energy and macronutrient intake in adolescent sprint athletes: a follow-up study.
ABS: Macronutrient intake, height, weight, and body composition of 60 adolescent sprint athletes were estimated every 6 months over 3 years. Seven-day food records were analysed based on the Belgian and Dutch food databanks. The age of participants at the start of the 3-year study was 14.8 ± 1.6 years for female athletes and 14.7 ± 1.9 years for male athletes. Girls and boys gained height (3.4 ± 4.6 cm and 5.9 ± 6.6 cm respectively) and weight (5.6 ± 3.5 kg and 8.7 ± 5.5 kg respectively), whereas percent body fat remained unchanged in both girls and boys (around 17.0% and 8.5% respectively). Mean protein intake of around 1.5 g · kg⁻¹ body weight was within recommendations on each occasion for both sexes. Carbohydrate intakes between 5 and 7 g · kg⁻¹ body weight support a training programme of moderate intensity. Total and saturated fat intakes were high at the start of the study (girls: 31.8 ± 3.5% and 12.2 ± 2.0% of energy intake; boys: 30.3 ± 4.6% and 12.0 ± 1.9% of energy intake) and it appeared to be difficult to achieve and maintain lower intakes. Consistent low fluid intakes around 40 ml · kg⁻¹ body weight were observed. General non-stringent advice for improvement of the diet resulted in significant favourable changes only for the consumption of wholegrain bread, vegetables, and soft drinks. Dietary habits of adolescent sprint athletes are not always according to guidelines and are relatively stable but repeated advice can induce moderate improvements.

--- 30318a2f seq6398 [no-identifier]
Y:2015 T:['dissertation']
TITLE: Effects of on-ice mild dehydration on thermoregulation, performance and mental fatigue in female ice hockey players

--- a36b30aa seq6399 [enriched]
Y:1987 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Induction and circumvention of nitrate tolerance applying different dosage intervals.
ABS: There is increasing evidence that constant nitrate plasma levels, as induced by at least three-times-daily ingestions of isosorbide dinitrate in sustained-release form, lead to an attenuation or even complete loss of the anti-ischemic effects (nitrate tolerance). Therefore, the dependence of tolerance development on dosage intervals according to once-daily and twice-daily ingestions was assessed. Tablets of isosorbide dinitrate (80 mg) in sustained-release form were administered once-daily at 8 A.M. (dosage interval 24 hours) or twice-daily at 8 A.M. and 8 P.M. (dosage interval 12 hours), as well as at 8 A.M. and 2 P.M., respectively (maximal dosage interval 18 hours). A total of 34 patients with angiographically proven coronary artery disease, a history of stable, exercise-dependent angina pectoris, and a reproducible, exercise-induced ST-segment depression of at least 0.15 mV (1.5 mm), who initially showed a response to 80 mg of isosorbide dinitrate, were enrolled. The anti-ischemic effects of isosorbide dinitrate on exercise-induced ischemia were objectively determined by the measurement of exercise-induced ST-segment depression before as well as two, six, and 12 hours after the ingestion at the first and the 15th day of the studies. Since the dosage interval of 12 hours resulted in constant plasma levels, the initially beneficial anti-ischemic effects of isosorbide dinitrate were considerably attenuated after two weeks of treatment. In contrast, the once-daily regimen wit

--- 18de679c seq6400 [enriched]
Y:1997 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Quasispecies analysis in hepatitis C virus infection by fluorescent single strand conformation polymorphism.
ABS: Hepatitis C virus (HCV) results frequently in chronic hepatitis and its sequelae liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Interferon-alpha is at present the most effective treatment, resulting in a sustained response in about 20-25% of patients. HCV genotype, titer and quasispecies determine the success of treatment. In this study, fluorescent single strand conformation polymorphism (f-SSCP) was evaluated for the analysis of HCV quasispecies. Two sera from a chronically HCV-infected patient, obtained 6 years apart, were examined. The hypervariable region I (HVRI) of the HCV genome was amplified by reverse transcription and PCR. The PCR products were cloned and sequenced or fluorescein-labeled and subjected to f-SSCP. Both methods demonstrated a single HCV species in the early serum and multiple quasispecies in the late serum. Single clones of the heterogeneous virus population were used to optimize conditions for f-SSCP. The most important factors were the gel temperature and virus titer. At the optimal running temperature one base exchange in 218 bases was detectable. Repeat extractions and amplifications gave identical results. Dilution of the serum containing multiple quasispecies resulted in a 'loss' of species. Provided the running temperature is optimal and virus titer is sufficient, f-SSCP is shown to be fast and reliable for HCV quasispecies analysis.

[p256 unjudged: 25 of 25]