--- 9833ef96 seq6626 [inline]
Y:1984 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Nutrition and the allergic athlete.
ABS: Nutritional management of the allergic athlete centers around providing a diet adequate to meet the increased needs of the athlete at the same time that it is modified by the exclusion of any problematic foods. The athlete has an increased need for water, total energy, carbohydrate, B vitamins, and perhaps protein, the last two of which are usually met when the diet fulfills the energy requirements of the athlete. Requirements for electrolytes are minimally increased, and the need for additional iron is unclear in light of "sports anemia." There is no evidence to support the use of vitamins C and E as ergogenic aids; however, the findings relating vitamin C to bronchospasm and bronchial hyperreactivity are interesting. Caffeine and bee pollen, often believed to increase performance, may be harmful for the allergic athlete. An approach for determining the problematic foods for the allergic athlete and necessary supplementation when they are avoided is given.

--- fd31f1ae seq6627 [enriched]
Y:2008 T:['Comparative Study', 'Journal Article', 'Multicenter Study', 'Randomized Controlled Trial']
TITLE: Stepped treatment of older adults on laxatives. The STOOL trial.
ABS: <h4>Objectives</h4>To investigate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of bulk-forming, stimulant and osmotic laxatives, and also of adding a second type of laxative agent in the treatment of patients whose constipation is not resolved by a single agent. Additionally, to define the meaning of constipation in older people from the perspective of GPs and older patients, and to investigate the use of prescribed and non-prescribed treatments for constipation in older people together with their adherence to prescribed treatments.<h4>Design</h4>A multicentre pragmatic, factorial randomised controlled trial with economic evaluation and qualitative study using in-depth interviews and focus groups with older people, GPs and community nurses.<h4>Setting</h4>General practices in north-east England.<h4>Participants</h4>People aged 55 years or over with chronic constipation living in private households.<h4>Interventions</h4>Six stepped-treatment strategies using three classes of laxatives: bulk, stimulant and osmotic preparations, singly and in combination.<h4>Main outcome measures</h4>The primary outcome was the constipation-specific Patient Assessment of Constipation--Symptoms/Patient Assessment of Constipation--Quality of Life. Secondary outcomes included EuroQoL 5 Dimensions, reported number of bowel movements per week, the presence/absence of the other Rome II criteria for constipation, adverse effects of treatment and relapse rates.<h4>Results</h4>Recruitment to the tri

--- ce2b3460 seq6628 [enriched]
Y:1997 T:['Clinical Trial', 'Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, U.S. Gov't, Non-P.H.S."]
TITLE: Carbohydrate-electrolyte solution effects on physical performance of military tasks.
ABS: <h4>Background</h4>Physical performance of military tasks can deteriorate during field training.<h4>Hypothesis</h4>Drinking a carbohydrate-electrolyte (CHO-E) beverage during military relevant training would improve fluid and caloric intake, and better sustain physical performance.<h4>Methods</h4>Some 27 volunteers restricted to approximately 2600 kcal.d-1 were randomly assigned to one of three groups: CHO-E, placebo, or water. Fluid intake was ad libitum. The volunteers completed 3 d of field training in hot humid conditions (30 degrees C, 60% rh). Training days 1 and 2 each included a 16-21 km march over hilly terrain, marksmanship training, and 2 h of rock climbing. Day 3 included a 14.5 km march followed by marksmanship tests, a timed rock climb and a 0.7 km uphill (21% grade) run.<h4>Results</h4>The CHO-E beverage provided an additional approximately 2800 kcal (p < 0.05) for the 3 d of training. There were no differences (ANOVA, p > 0.05) between the groups absolute or changes from pre-training values for fluid intake, body weight, climb time, run time, marksmanship, or mood. Those drinking CHO-E were, however, more likely to maintain uphill run performance after training (chi 2 = 7.2; p < 0.05) and more likely to maintain both uphill run and marksmanship ability (chi 2 = 17.2; p < 0.05). There was also an inverse relationship between caloric intake and deterioration of uphill run performance (r = -0.75; p < 0.05).<h4>Conclusions</h4>Persons drinking CHO-E or practicing 

--- bab6bd85 seq6629 [enriched]
Y:2017 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Fiber Patterns in Young Adults Living in Different Environments (USA, Spain, and Tunisia). Anthropometric and Lifestyle Characteristics.
ABS: Benefits of dietary fiber go beyond its effect on chronic diseases associated with development. Consequently, the pattern of fiber intake has been considered an indicator for diet quality. Young adults are especially vulnerable to a food environment that drives an increase in chronic diseases linked to economic development. The aim of this work was to characterize patterns of fiber intake among university students. A cross-sectional study was conducted on a sample of 730 students enrolled at the University of Castilla-La Mancha (Spain), the University of Carthage (Tunisia), and Florida International University (USA). Mean age was 21.2. Food consumption was self-reported in two 24-h recalls. Mean dietary fiber intake was 17.8 g, not reaching the adequate intake. Contrary to expectations, American participants were the highest consumers (<i>p</i> < 0.001), and also exhibited the highest BMI. Cereals, legumes, vegetables and fruit were the main food sources of fiber. Fiber from appetizers, prepared and precooked meals, sauces, spices and condiments accounted for 16.7% in American participants, 7.4% in Spanish participants and 2.6% in Tunisian participants. Total fiber intake increased with energy intake but did not depend on smoking habits and physical activity in any country. It is essential to improve consumers' interpretation of guidelines on fiber intake.

--- 1cc4601b seq6630 [inline]
Y:1995 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Dietary intake of female collegiate heavyweight rowers.
ABS: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the adequacy of dietary intake in 16 female heavyweight rowers during the sprint racing phase of the season. Caloric intake for the rowers was 2,633 kcal/day, lower than expected given the training regimen of these athletes. On average, rowers consumed below-optimal levels of carbohydrate. Protein intake was satisfactory but fat intake was higher than recommended. For the majority of rowers, micronutrient intake met the RDA. However, calcium, zinc, B6, and B12 fell short of meeting two-thirds of the RDA for a significant percentage of rowers. The preevent meal consumed both 15 hr and 2 hr before the event provided less carbohydrate and fluid but more fat than desirable. Female heavyweight rowers would benefit from nutritional counseling that provides strategies for increasing complex carbohydrates, calcium, zinc, B6, and B12 while reducing dietary fat. Adequate fluid intake is also essential.

--- db5046dc seq6631 [enriched]
Y:2024 T:['Comparative Study', 'Journal Article']
TITLE: Comparison of oven drying and freeze drying methods for the production of fast melt films containing quetiapine fumarate.
ABS: <h4>Background</h4>Quetiapine fumarate (QTP) is commonly prescribed for schizophrenic patient, typically available in tablet or oral suspension form, presenting challenges such as administration difficulties, fear of choking and distaste for its bitter taste. Fast melt films (FMF) offer an alternative dosage form with a simple development process, ease of administration and rapid drug absorption and action onset.<h4>Objective</h4>This study aims to prepare FMF with different formulations using solvent casting methods and to compare the effects of different drying methods, including oven drying and freeze drying, on the properties of the films.<h4>Methods</h4>Various formulations were created by manipulating polymer types (starch, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC) and guar gum) at different concentrations, along with fixed concentrations of QTP and other excipients. Characterization tests including surface morphology, weight, thickness, pH, tensile strength, elongation length, Young's modulus, folding endurance and disintegration time were conducted. The optimal FMF formulation was identified and further evaluated for moisture and drug content, dissolution behavior, accelerated stability, X-ray diffraction (XRD), and palatability.<h4>Results</h4>FMF containing 10 mg guar gum/film developed using oven drying emerged as the optimum choice, exhibiting desirable film appearance, ultra-thin thickness (0.453 ± 0.002 mm), appropriate pH for oral intake (pH 5.0), optimal moisture c

--- 3a9ed7c4 seq6632 [enriched]
Y:1991 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Food selection patterns of bodybuilders.
ABS: This paper describes the changes in the food selection patterns of male (n = 7) and female (n = 12) bodybuilders as they prepared for competition. Non-competition dietary data were obtained 6 to 17 weeks (M = 12.5 wks) prior to competition using a 3-day food record. Precompetition food intake was recorded for the 3 days preceding competition. Foods were classified using the Exchange System and three additional categories which included desserts, alcoholic beverages, and other beverages. The noncompetition diets of the bodybuilders contained servings from each exchange, with the largest number of selections coming from the meat and bread/starch exchanges. Choices from the milk and meat exchanges were almost exclusively low-fat or lean. Primarily complex carbohydrates and high-fiber foods were selected from the bread/starch exchange. The number of different food items reported over 3 days and the total number of food items were greater in the noncompetition diet than in the precompetition diet. Also, variety among food groups and within some of the exchange groups was less in the precompetition diet. Although there was not much variety in the precompetition diets of the bodybuilders, the average nutrient density of their diets exceeded the Index of Nutritional Quality for all nutrients except calcium and zinc.

--- b0c1a091 seq6633 [enriched]
Y:2017 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Use of a Mobile Application for Self-Monitoring Dietary Intake: Feasibility Test and an Intervention Study.
ABS: Given the increasing social and economic burden of chronic disease and the need for efficient approaches to prevent and treat chronic disease, emphasis on the use of information and communication technology (ICT)-based health care has emerged. We aimed to test the feasibility of a mobile application, Diet-A, and examine whether Diet-A could be used to monitor dietary intake among adolescents. In a three-month pre-post intervention study, 9 male and 24 female high school students aged 16-18 years consented and participated in this study. Participants were instructed to record all foods and beverages consumed using voice or text mode input. Nutrient intake was measured using 24-h recalls pre- and post-intervention. We compared nutrient intake data assessed by Diet-A application with those assessed by 24-h recalls. Participants tended to underreport intakes of nutrients compared to those assessed by two 24-h recalls. There were significant decreases in sodium (<i>p</i> = 0.04) and calcium (<i>p</i> = 0.03) intake between pre- and post-intervention. Of participants who completed questionnaires of feasibility (<i>n</i> = 24), 61.9% reported that they were satisfied using the application to monitor their food intake, and 47.7% liked getting personal information about their dietary intake from the application. However, more than 70% of participants answered that it was burdensome to use the application or that they had trouble remembering to record their food intake. The mobile appl

--- 0da75a9a seq6634 [enriched]
Y:2000 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Modeling conductive heat transfer and process uniformity during batch high-pressure processing of foods.
ABS: A numerical model for predicting conductive heat transfer during batch high hydrostatic pressure (HHP) processing of foods was developed and tested for a food simulator (agar gel). For a comprehensive evaluation of the proposed method, both "conventional" HHP processes, HHP processes with gradual, step-by-step pressure buildup and pressure release, and pressure cycling HHP processes were included. In all cases, good agreement between experimental and predicted temperature profiles was observed. The model provides a very useful tool to evaluate batch HHP processes in terms of uniformity of any heat- and/or pressure-related effect. This is illustrated for inactivation of Bacillus subtilis alpha-amylase, an enzymatic model system with known pressure-temperature degradation kinetics.

--- 8496e720 seq6635 [inline]
Y:2017 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: [Carbohydrates and sports practice: a Twitter virtual ethnography].
ABS: Introduction: Although carbohydrates consumption is a key factor to enhance sport performance, intake levels seem questioned by some amateur athletes, leading to develop an irrational aversion to carbohydrate known as “carbophobia”. On the other hand, food is the origin of virtual communities erected as a source of knowledge and a way to exchange information. Despite this, very few studies have analysed the influence of social media in eating behaviours.
Objectives: To know the conceptualizations about carbohydrates intake and eating patterns related to carbophobia expressed in amateur athletes’ Twitter accounts.
Methods: Qualitative research designed from Hine’s Virtual Ethnography. Virtual immersion was used for data collection in Twitter open accounts in a theoretical sample of tweets from amateur athletes. Discourse analysis of narrative information of tweets was carried out through open, axial and selective coding process and the constant comparison method.
Results: Data analysis revealed four main categories that offered a picture of conceptualizations of carbohydrates: carbohydrates as suspects or guilty from slowing down training, carbophobia as a lifestyle, carbophobia as a religion and finally the love/hate relationship with carbohydrates.
Conclusions: Low-carbohydrate diet is considered a healthy lifestyle in some amateur athletes. The results of this study show the power of virtual communication tools such as Twitter to support, promote and maintain uncommon and n

--- b2a19cd7 seq6636 [enriched]
Y:2014 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Macronutrients and obesity: revisiting the calories in, calories out framework.
ABS: Recent clinical research has studied weight responses to varying diet composition, but the contribution of changes in macronutrient intake and physical activity to rising population weight remains controversial. Research on the economics of obesity typically assumes a "calories in, calories out" framework, but a weight production model separating caloric intake into carbohydrates, fat, and protein, has not been explored in an economic framework. To estimate the contributions of changes in macronutrient intake and physical activity to changes in population weight, we conducted dynamic time series and structural VAR analyses of U.S. data between 1974 and 2006 and a panel analysis of 164 countries between 2001 and 2010. Findings from all analyses suggest that increases in carbohydrates are most strongly and positively associated with increases in obesity prevalence even when controlling for changes in total caloric intake and occupation-related physical activity. Our structural VAR results suggest that, on the margin, a 1% increase in carbohydrates intake yields a 1.01 point increase in obesity prevalence over 5 years while an equal percent increase in fat intake decreases obesity prevalence by 0.24 points.

--- d08d0de4 seq6637 [inline]
Y:2017 T:['Dissertation']
TITLE: Investigations into the physiological and metabolic demands of elite rugby players : understanding how best to fuel the athlete
ABS: Rugby is a complex, high-intensity, intermittent, collision sport with emphasis placed on players possessing high lean body-mass and low body-fat. After an 8-12 week pre-season focused on physiological adaptations, emphasis shifts towards optimizing competitive performance and recovery through periodising player’s diets and training. In Chapter 4 the physiological demands and nutritional intakes of 45 elite rugby players were assessed during a pre-season through a battery of strength and conditioning tests, quantification of training demands using global positioning system (GPS), and two 24-hour diet recalls. Mean weekly distance covered during training was 9774 ± 1404 and 11585 ± 1810 m with a total mean weekly session RPE (sRPE) of 3398 ± 335 and 2944 ± 410 arbitrary units (AU) for forwards and backs respectively. Mean daily energy intake was 14.8 ± 1.9 and 13.3 ± 1.9 MJ, carbohydrate (CHO) intake was 3.3 ± 0.7 and 4.14 ± 0.4 g·kg-1 body mass, protein intake was 2.52 ± 0.3 and 2.59 ± 0.6 g·kg-1 body mass, and fat intake was 1.0 ± 0.3 and 0.95 ± 0.3 g·kg-1 body mass for forwards and backs respectively. Markers of physical performance (1-RM strength, speed, and repeated sprint tests) and anthropometry ... (continues)

--- 02bc1fde seq6638 [upstream-no-abstract]
Y:1995 T:['English Abstract', 'Journal Article', 'Newspaper Article']
TITLE: [Taking control with our diet].

--- 37851aad seq6639 [enriched]
Y:2020 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial']
TITLE: Effects of a Multi-ingredient Beverage on Recovery of Contractile Properties, Performance, and Muscle Soreness After Hard Resistance Training Sessions.
ABS: Naclerio, F, Larumbe-Zabala, E, Cooper, K, and Seijo, M. Effects of a multi-ingredient beverage on recovery of contractile properties, performance, and muscle soreness after hard resistance training sessions. J Strength Cond Res 34(7): 1884-1893, 2020-Carbohydrate-protein-based supplements have been proposed for maximizing postexercise recovery. This study compared the effects of postworkout supplementation ingesting a multi-ingredient (MTN) vs. carbohydrate alone (CHO) on the recovery of muscle function and perceived of delayed onset of muscle soreness (DOMS) after hard resistance workouts. In a double-blinded, crossover design, 10 resistance trained men (26.9 ± 7.4 years) performed 2 identical 5-day intervention periods while ingesting either MTN or CHO. The subjects performed one workout per day during the first 3 days. Thereafter, they were assessed 1, 24, and 48 hours after the completion of the third workout session. Primary outcome was tensiomyography (muscle displacement [Dm], contraction time [Tc], and contraction velocity [Vc]) of the vastus medialis (VM) and biceps femoris long head (BFLH). Secondary outcomes were performance and DOMS. At 24 hours, both conditions decreased (p < 0.05) Dm (MTN -1.71 ± 1.8, CHO -1.58 ± 1.46 mm) and Vc (MTN -0.03 ± 0.03, CHO 0.03 ± 0.04 m·s) in the VM. At 48 hours, all tensiomyography variables were recovered under the MTN while remained depressed (p < 0.01) in CHO (VM, Dm 1.61 ± 1.60, Vc -0.04 ± 0.04 m·s; BFLH, Dm 1.54 ± 1.52, Vc -0.

--- b8cda01b seq6640 [enriched]
Y:2006 T:['Comparative Study', 'Journal Article']
TITLE: Evaluation of the physical stability of two oleogels.
ABS: Oleogels are semisolid systems obtained with an organogelator and a hydrophobic liquid that have been investigated over the past few years and that could play an important role as dermatological bases. Recently, we have developed an oleogel of sorbitan monostearate (19wt.%) and sweet almond oil (SM-SAO) and another one of cholesterol (3.5wt.%) and liquid paraffin (Ch-LP). The aim of this work is to access their physical stability using three different methodologies. The gels were stored at different temperatures (20 and 40 degrees C) over a 3-month period. Appearance and textural properties were assessed on each month. An accelerated test was also performed where the temperature changed between 4 and 40 degrees C every 24h, during 7 days. Rheological tests were also carried out as they could provide useful elements to predict stability. The gels were quite stable at 20 degrees C, being the SM-SAO gel the most stable. The textural properties of both gels were influenced by temperature. The decrease of the textural parameters, observed after storage at 40 degrees C and in the cycling test, was more significant for the SM-SAO gel. A good correlation was found between rheological analysis and conventional stability tests. The heating/cooling cycle test provided useful information in a short period of time.

--- 01ec319d seq6641 [enriched]
Y:2002 T:['Clinical Trial', 'Controlled Clinical Trial', 'Journal Article']
TITLE: Creatine supplementation influences substrate utilization at rest.
ABS: The influence of creatine supplementation on substrate utilization during rest was investigated using a double-blind crossover design. Ten active men participated in 12 wk of weight training and were given creatine and placebo (20 g/day for 4 days, then 2 g/day for 17 days) in two trials separated by a 4-wk washout. Body composition, substrate utilization, and strength were assessed after weeks 2, 5, 9, and 12. Maximal isometric contraction [1 repetition maximum (RM)] leg press increased significantly (P < 0.05) after both treatments, but 1-RM bench press was increased (33 +/- 8 kg, P < 0.05) only after creatine. Total body mass increased (1.6 +/- 0.5 kg, P < 0.05) after creatine but not after placebo. Significant (P < 0.05) increases in fat-free mass were found after creatine and placebo supplementation (1.9 +/- 0.8 and 2.2 +/- 0.7 kg, respectively). Fat mass did not change significantly with creatine but decreased after the placebo trial (-2.4 +/- 0.8 kg, P < 0.05). Carbohydrate oxidation was increased by creatine (8.9 +/- 4.0%, P < 0.05), whereas there was a trend for increased respiratory exchange ratio after creatine supplementation (0.03 +/- 0.01, P = 0.07). Changes in substrate oxidation may influence the inhibition of fat mass loss associated with creatine after weight training.

--- 1ec3bc86 seq6642 [enriched]
Y:2021 T:['Case Reports', 'Journal Article']
TITLE: Scurvy as an Alarm Bell of Autistic Spectrum Disorder in the First World: A Case Report of a 3-Year-Old Girl.
ABS: BACKGROUND Scurvy secondary to deficiency of vitamin C is a rare condition in children. The polymorphism of clinical signs and symptoms makes scurvy diagnosis a challenge for the pediatrician. CASE REPORT A 3-year-old girl came to our observation because she refused to walk and to stand, she showed petechiae, follicular hyperkeratosis on the limbs, and bleeding gums. After a physical exam, laboratory tests, and X-ray examinations, we suspected scurvy disease and started treatment with vitamin C. During the hospitalization, some relationship difficulties of the little girl emerged such as absence of eye contact, smiling and laughter without reason, solitary play activities, poor interaction with strangers, non-communicative language, and gestural stereotypes. Therefore, we suspected an autism spectrum disorder, which is often associated with vitamins intake deficiency secondary to food selectivity. After the administration of vitamins, there was a clinical improvement. Due to the suspicion of autism spectrum disorder, the neuropsychiatric team started neuro-psychomotor and speech therapy. CONCLUSIONS This case shows that although the incidence of scurvy has been greatly reduced in Western Europe, this pathology can still manifest itself, especially in vulnerable children, and its prompt diagnosis and therapy are important considering the excellent response to treatment.

--- 7e2dcd26 seq6643 [enriched]
Y:1995 T:['Clinical Trial', 'Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial']
TITLE: Effects of carbohydrate supplementation during intense training on dietary patterns, psychological status, and performance.
ABS: The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of carbohydrate supplementation during intense training on dietary patterns, psychological status, and markers of anaerobic and aerobic performance. Seven members of the U.S. National Field Hockey Team were matched to 7 team counterparts (N = 14). One group was blindly administered a carbohydrate drink containing 1 g.kg-1 of carbohydrate four times daily, while the remaining group blindly ingested a flavored placebo during 7 days of intense training. Subjects underwent pre- and posttraining aerobic and anaerobic assessments, recorded daily diet intake, and were administered the Profile of Mood States (POMS) psychological inventory prior to and following each practice. Results revealed that the carbohydrate-supplemented group had a greater (p < .05) total energy intake, carbohydrate intake, and change (pre vs. post) in time to maximal exhaustion following training while reporting less postpractice psychological fatigue. However, no significant differences were observed in remaining psychological, physiological, or performance-related variables.

--- 3841ecae seq6644 [enriched]
Y:2020 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Training Load and Carbohydrate Periodization Practices of Elite Male Australian Football Players: Evidence of Fueling for the Work Required.
ABS: The authors aimed to quantify (a) the periodization of physical loading and daily carbohydrate (CHO) intake across an in-season weekly microcycle of Australian Football and (b) the quantity and source of CHO consumed during game play and training. Physical loading (via global positioning system technology) and daily CHO intake (via a combination of 24-hr recall, food diaries, and remote food photographic method) were assessed in 42 professional male players during two weekly microcycles comprising a home and away fixture. The players also reported the source and quantity of CHO consumed during all games (n = 22 games) and on the training session completed 4 days before each game (n = 22 sessions). The total distance was greater (p < .05) on game day (GD; 13 km) versus all training days. The total distance differed between training days, where GD-2 (8 km) was higher than GD-1, GD-3, and GD-4 (3.5, 0, and 7 km, respectively). The daily CHO intake was also different between training days, with reported intakes of 1.8, 1.4, 2.5, and 4.5 g/kg body mass on GD-4, GD-3, GD-2, and GD-1, respectively. The CHO intake was greater (p < .05) during games (59 ± 19 g) compared with training (1 ± 1 g), where in the former, 75% of the CHO consumed was from fluids as opposed to gels. Although the data suggest that Australian Football players practice elements of CHO periodization, the low absolute CHO intakes likely represent considerable underreporting in this population. Even when accounting 

--- 0f17b359 seq6645 [inline]
Y:2004 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Dietary intake and nutritional practices of elite Greek aquatic athletes.
ABS: To investigate whether aquatic athletes follow optimal dietary intake, 58 athletes, all members of the Greek national swimming and water polo teams, were tested. Dietary intake was assessed at the nutrient, food, and food group level using the 24-h recall method and a food frequency questionnaire. Mean energy intake for males and females was 14.3 and 8.5 MJ, respectively. Mean carbohydrate consumption for male and female athletes was 4.5 g/kg and 3.8 g/kg of body weight, respectively. Fat intake was 153 g for males and 79 g for females. A significant number of the athletes (71% of the males, 93% of the females) did not meet the Dietary Reference Intakes for at least one of the antioxidant vitamins. The data suggest that athletes of both genders consumed too much fat and too little carbohydrate. Insufficient fruit and vegetable intake was related to low intake of antioxidants.

--- 5084df9b seq6646 [enriched]
Y:2026 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Are risky driving, health behaviors, and cardiometabolic risk interrelated? Findings from the cooper center longitudinal study.
ABS: <h4>Objective</h4>While risky driving behaviors and unhealthy lifestyle behaviors both have deleterious consequences, they are rarely targeted jointly. The present study examines the associations between risky driving behaviors, health-related behaviors, and cardiometabolic risk factors among adults over time.<h4>Methods</h4>Longitudinal examination of 17,846 adults who attended a preventive medicine clinic (Dallas, TX) at least twice (1988-2024). The primary independent variables were risky driving behaviors: not wearing a seat belt, driving after drinking alcohol, angry driving, and speeding, as well as an overall score (0-4). The dependent variables were current smoking, alcohol intake, cardiorespiratory fitness levels, and cardiometabolic risk factors. The relationships were examined using a hybrid model, which accounted for both between- and within-person variations.<h4>Results</h4>The average age of participants at baseline was 46.4 years (SD = 8.7), three-quarters (75.2%) were men, and 84.6% were college-educated. Examining variation between participants, a 1-point higher risky driving behavior total score was associated with 2.89 (95%CI 2.52, 3.33) times higher odds for current smoking, 1.61 (95%CI 1.53, 1.70) times higher odds for greater alcohol intake, and 10.0% lower odds for higher fitness (OR = 0.90; 95%CI 0.85, 0.94). Additionally, a higher total risky driving behaviors score was related to elevated cardiometabolic risk factors, such as elevated waist circumfer

--- 846bff1f seq6647 [enriched]
Y:2021 T:['Journal Article', 'Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Conditional impairment of Coxiella burnetii by glucose-6P dehydrogenase activity.
ABS: Coxiella burnetii is a bacterial obligate intracellular parasite and the etiological agent of query (Q) fever. While the C. burnetii genome has been reduced to ∼2 Mb as a likely consequence of genome streamlining in response to parasitism, enzymes for a nearly complete central metabolic machinery are encoded by the genome. However, lack of a canonical hexokinase for phosphorylation of glucose and an apparent absence of the oxidative branch of the pentose phosphate pathway, a major mechanism for regeneration of the reducing equivalent nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH), have been noted as potential metabolic limitations of C. burnetii. By complementing C. burnetii with the gene zwf encoding the glucose-6-phosphate-consuming and NADPH-producing enzyme glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), we demonstrate a severe metabolic fitness defect for C. burnetii under conditions of glucose limitation. Supplementation of the medium with the gluconeogenic carbon source glutamate did not rescue the growth defect of bacteria complemented with zwf. Absence of G6PD in C. burnetii therefore likely relates to the negative effect of its activity under conditions of glucose limitation. Coxiella burnetii central metabolism with emphasis on glucose, NAD+, NADP+ and NADPH is discussed in a broader perspective, including comparisons with other bacterial obligate intracellular parasites.

--- d9559d4d seq6648 [enriched]
Y:1990 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Effects of ibuprofen on doxorubicin toxicity.
ABS: The cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin (Adriamycin) restricts the usefulness of this potent antineoplastic agent. Since the cardiotoxic mechanism (generation of oxygen radicals) is distinct from the primary chemotherapeutic mechanism (intercalation of DNA) efforts to decrease the cardiotoxic potential are warranted. Three nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, aspirin, ibuprofen and sulindac were tested for effects upon survival in the chronic mouse model of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity. The original premise in these studies was that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, through inhibition of cyclooxygenase activity, would suppress the attending generation of superoxide anions and reduce a synergism with oxygen radicals produced by redox cycling of doxorubicin. Acetaminophen was included in the studies as an example of an analgesic agent which lacks anti-inflammatory efficacy. Doxorubicin (4 mg/kg) was injected intraperitoneally at 3-week intervals in Swiss-Webster mice. The interventions were administered in equianalgesic doses in the drinking water for 2 days before and 3 days after the doxorubicin injections. Ibuprofen (1 mg/ml) increased survival from 16.0%, for doxorubicin alone, to 63.6% (p less than 10(-6); none of the other interventions demonstrated protection. Ibuprofen-treated mice also lost less weight during the treatment period than all other doxorubicin injected animals (p less than 10(-6]. Since the three antiinflammatory drugs tested are all cyclooxygenase inhibitors

--- 98220c48 seq6649 [enriched]
Y:2015 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Chondroitin Lyase from a Marine Arthrobacter sp. MAT3885 for the Production of Chondroitin Sulfate Disaccharides.
ABS: Chondroitin sulfate (CS) saccharides from cartilage tissues have potential application in medicine or as dietary supplements due to their therapeutic bioactivities. Studies have shown that depolymerized CS saccharides may display enhanced bioactivity. The objective of this study was to isolate a CS-degrading enzyme for an efficient production of CS oligo- or disaccharides. CS-degrading bacteria from marine environments were enriched using in situ artificial support colonization containing CS from shark cartilage as substrate. Subsequently, an Arthrobacter species (strain MAT3885) efficiently degrading CS was isolated from a CS enrichment culture. The genomic DNA from strain MAT3885 was pyro-sequenced by using the 454 FLX sequencing technology. Following assembly and annotation, an orf, annotated as family 8 polysaccharide lyase genes, was identified, encoding an amino acid sequence with a similarity to CS lyases according to NCBI blastX. The gene, designated choA1, was cloned in Escherichia coli and expressed downstream of and in frame with the E. coli malE gene for obtaining a high yield of soluble recombinant protein. Applying a dual-tag system (MalE-Smt3-ChoA1), the MalE domain was separated from ChoA1 with proteolytic cleavage using Ulp1 protease. ChoA1 was defined as an AC-type enzyme as it degraded chondroitin sulfate A, C, and hyaluronic acid. The optimum activity of the enzyme was at pH 5.5-7.5 and 40 °C, running a 10-min reaction. The native enzyme was estimated to b

--- 10545f0a seq6650 [enriched]
Y:2013 T:['Comparative Study', 'Journal Article']
TITLE: Meal induced gut hormone secretion is altered in aerobically trained compared to sedentary young healthy males.
ABS: Postprandial insulin release is lower in healthy aerobically trained (T) compared to untrained (UT) individuals. This may be mediated by a lower release of the two incretin hormones [glucagon like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP)] in T. The aim of this study was to assess and compare gut hormone response and satiety changes after a liquid meal intake in young, healthy T and UT males. Postprandial gut hormone release and subjective feelings of hunger, satiety, fullness and prospective food consumption were assessed before and frequently for the following 3 h after a 200 ml liquid meal (1,260 kJ and 27, 41 and 32 energy % as protein, carbohydrates and fat, respectively) in ten T and ten UT young, healthy male subjects. The insulin and GIP responses were markedly lower in T than UT and correlated during the first 30 min after the liquid meal. Baseline GLP-1 concentration was higher in T versus UT, but the response in the following 3 h after a liquid meal was similar in T and UT. Satiety measures did not differ between groups throughout the test. It is possible that in aerobically T subjects, a lower GIP release is partly responsible for a lower postprandial incretin stimulated insulin secretion.

[p266 unjudged: 25 of 25]