--- seq101 p5 ahig:candidate:publication:9cf55b78f18cadf2a03d4b4a
Y:2026 T:['Journal Article', 'Review', 'review-article']
TITLE: Travel-Induced Circadian and Microbiota Disturbances: Implications for Athlete Health and Performance: A Narrative Review.
ABS: High-performance athletes are increasingly exposed to frequent trans-meridian travel, leading to profound circadian desynchronization and gastrointestinal distress. This review examines the complex interplay between the host's central circadian system and the gut microbiota (GM), both of which exhibit synchronised daily oscillations essential for homeostasis. Rapid time-zone transitions, such as those anticipated for the 2026 FIFA World Cup, induce a state of "gut jet lag," characterised by the loss of rhythmic microbial functions and impaired intestinal barrier integrity. Circadian misalignment is associated with increased systemic inflammation and disrupted metabolic regulation, which may contribute to impairments in cognitive performance, sleep quality, and muscle recovery. Critically, travel-induced dysbiosis may reduce the production of microbial metabolites, specifically short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) like acetate, propionate, and butyrate. These SCFAs serve as energy substrates that may enhance glucose uptake, lipid oxidation, and glycogen storage in skeletal muscle. Evidence suggests that travel-related stressors-including dehydration, psychological stress, and shifts toward highly processed diets-further exacerbate the loss of beneficial taxa. To mitigate these effects,

--- seq102 p5 ahig:candidate:publication:2a7c3e0b43ef58e94c644b10
Y:2023 T:['review']
TITLE: Exploring the Nutrition Strategies Employed by Ultra-Endurance Athletes to Alleviate Exercise-Induced Gastrointestinal Symptoms—A Systematic Review
ABS: 

--- seq103 p5 ahig:candidate:publication:6e93f89a67a4963f080a310a
Y:1995 T:['Journal Article', 'Review']
TITLE: Gastrointestinal symptoms during exercise. The effect of fluid supplementation.
ABS: 

--- seq104 p5 ahig:candidate:publication:0ccdf624a250a225c4f88557
Y:2021 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't", 'Review', 'article']
TITLE: Nutritional considerations to counteract gastrointestinal permeability during exertional heat stress.
ABS: 

--- seq105 p5 ahig:candidate:publication:227e62827f74365cbf8f0ab1
Y:2008 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Treadmill exercise reduces obestatin concentrations in rat fundus and small intestine.
ABS: Ghrelin and obestatin both are orexigenic/anorexigenic peptides which are secreted from gastrointestinal tracts (fundus submucosa cells). Obestatin is a 23 amino acid peptide recently isolated from rat stomach, is encoded by the same gene that encodes ghrelin. It has been suggested that ghrelin/obestatin stimulate growth hormone release and have opposite actions on food intake. Distribution and biological activity of obestatin and its role in energy balance were studied in rodents. The purpose of the present study was to investigate fundus and intestine obestatin concentrations and selected hormonal responses to a treadmill exercise running program. Fourteen adult Wistar male rats (12-14 weeks old, 235-250 g) were used for this study. Animals were divided into control (n=7) and training (n=7) groups. Training group was given exercise on a motor-driven treadmill at 25 m/min (0% grade) for 60 min/day, 5 days/week for 6 weeks. Rats were sacrificed 48 h after the last session of exercise fundus, small intestine, and liver were excised, immediately washed in ice-cold saline, and frozen in liquid nitrogen for determination of obestatin and ATP concentrations and liver glycogen content. Plasma was collected for glucose, growth hormone (GH), insulin, and cortisol measurements. Total obes

--- seq106 p5 ahig:candidate:publication:96a6d5a6d319f7ec9c38dc4a
Y:2006 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Interaction of carbohydrate metabolism and rat liquid gastric emptying in sustained running.
ABS: <h4>Background</h4>Moderate to severe running usually leads to gastrointestinal dysmotility and critical energy exhaustion. It is unknown whether the carbohydrate metabolism of runners can influence gastric emptying (GE). Using a running rat model, the present study explored the impact of exercise/carbohydrate metabolism on liquid GE.<h4>Methods</h4>Rats were put on the runways of a moving treadmill for 1 h. Trained rats underwent daily running 5 days a week for 4 weeks. Untrained rats were those put on a quiet treadmill to serve as sham exercise. On the motility study day, trained and untrained rats ran for 45 min. After orogastric feeding of radiochromium marker, they resumed running for an additional 15 min and were then killed in order to measure GE. Another group of trained and untrained rats received lactate infusion for 1 h in the quiet condition to measure their GE. The third group of rats received glucose infusion during running to measure GE.<h4>Results</h4>Running of untrained (P < 0.05) and trained (P < 0.01) rats enhanced GE compared to sham exercise. Running for the untrained rats rather than the trained counterparts had diminished plasma glucose level (P < 0.05). Running also elevated plasma lactate levels for both untrained (P < 0.001) and trained rats (P < 0.01).

--- seq107 p5 ahig:candidate:publication:a07eb3b68dbea70a89636e18
Y:2011 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Exercise-induced, but not creatine-induced, decrease in intramyocellular lipid content improves insulin sensitivity in rats.
ABS: The effect of creatine supplementation, alone or in combination with exercise training, on insulin sensitivity, intramyocellular lipid content (IMCL) and fatty acid translocase (FAT)/CD36 content was investigated in rats fed a sucrose-rich cafeteria diet during 12 weeks. Five experimental conditions were CON, receiving normal pellets; CAF, fed the cafeteria diet; CAF(TR), fed the cafeteria diet together with exercise training in weeks 8-12 and CAF(CR) and CAF(CRT) that were analogous to CAF and CAF(TR), respectively, but which received daily 2.5% of creatine monohydrate. During intravenous glucose tolerance test, compared with CON, whole-body glucose tolerance was reduced in CAF and CAF(CR) but not in CAF(TR) and CAF(CRT). Insulin-stimulated glucose transport in perfused red gastrocnemius muscles was impaired in CAF and CAF(CR) but not in the trained groups. IMCL content in soleus and extensor digitorum longus muscles was higher in CAF than in CON, but not in CAF(TR), CAF(CR) and CAF(CRT). Compared with CON and CAF, FAT/CD36 protein content in m. soleus, was ~40% lower in CAF(CR), CAF(TR) and CAF(CRT). The fraction of fecal fat, as determined in a 3-week post hoc study, was 25% higher in CAF(CR) than in CON. Moreover, in CAF(CR), triglyceride concentration in blood and liver were

--- seq108 p5 ahig:candidate:publication:e583b98fd9e398fa68a72753
Y:2012 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: L-Arginine but not L-glutamine likely increases exogenous carbohydrate oxidation during endurance exercise.
ABS: The addition of L-arginine or L-glutamine to glucose-electrolyte solutions can increase intestinal water, glucose, and sodium absorption in rats and humans. We evaluated the utility of L-arginine and L-glutamine in energy-rehydration beverages through assessment of exogenous glucose oxidation and perceptions of exertion and gastrointestinal distress during endurance exercise. Eight cyclists rode 150 min at 50% of peak power on four occasions while ingesting solutions at a rate of 150 mL 15 min(-1) that contained (13)C-enriched glucose (266 mmol L(-1)) and sodium citrate ([Na(+)] 60 mmol L(-1)), and either: 4.25 mmol L(-1) L-arginine or 45 mmol L(-1) L-glutamine, and as controls glucose only or no glucose. Relative to glucose only, L-arginine invoked a likely 12% increase in exogenous glucose oxidation (90% confidence limits: ± 8%); however, the effect of L-glutamine was possibly trivial (4.5 ± 7.3%). L-Arginine also led to very likely small reductions in endogenous fat oxidation rate relative to glucose (12 ± 4%) and L-glutamine (14 ± 4%), and relative to no glucose, likely reductions in exercise oxygen consumption (2.6 ± 1.5%) and plasma lactate concentration (0.20 ± 0.16 mmol L(-1)). Effects on endogenous and total carbohydrate oxidation were inconsequential. Compared with gluc

--- seq109 p5 ahig:candidate:publication:2d35021cb0c3df2b410e196f
Y:2021 T:['Journal Article', 'research-article']
TITLE: High Carbohydrate Diet Increased Glucose Transporter Protein Levels in Jejunum but Did Not Lead to Enhanced Post-Exercise Skeletal Muscle Glycogen Recovery.
ABS: We examined the effect of dietary carbohydrate intake on post-exercise glycogen recovery. Male Institute of Cancer Research (ICR) mice were fed moderate-carbohydrate chow (MCHO, 50%cal from carbohydrate) or high-carbohydrate chow (HCHO, 70%cal from carbohydrate) for 10 days. They then ran on a treadmill at 25 m/min for 60 min and administered an oral glucose solution (1.5 mg/g body weight). Compared to the MCHO group, the HCHO group showed significantly higher sodium-D-glucose co-transporter 1 protein levels in the brush border membrane fraction (<i>p</i> = 0.003) and the glucose transporter 2 level in the mucosa of jejunum (<i>p</i> = 0.004). At 30 min after the post-exercise glucose administration, the skeletal muscle and liver glycogen levels were not significantly different between the two diet groups. The blood glucose concentration from the portal vein (which is the entry site of nutrients from the gastrointestinal tract) was not significantly different between the groups at 15 min after the post-exercise glucose administration. There was no difference in the total or phosphorylated states of proteins related to glucose uptake and glycogen synthesis in skeletal muscle. Although the high-carbohydrate diet significantly increased glucose transporters in the jejunum, this adap

--- seq110 p5 ahig:candidate:publication:350ae247f14894d2e95eecc6
Y:2017 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Effects of intravenous administration of lidocaine and buprenorphine on gastrointestinal tract motility and signs of pain in New Zealand White rabbits after ovariohysterectomy.
ABS: OBJECTIVE To compare analgesic and gastrointestinal effects of lidocaine and buprenorphine administered to rabbits undergoing ovariohysterectomy. ANIMALS Fourteen 12-month-old female New Zealand White rabbits. PROCEDURES Rabbits were assigned to 2 treatment groups (7 rabbits/group). One group received buprenorphine (0.06 mg/kg, IV, q 8 h for 2 days), and the other received lidocaine (continuous rate infusion [CRI] at 100 μg/kg/min for 2 days). Variables, including food and water consumption, fecal output, glucose and cortisol concentrations, and behaviors while in exercise pens, were recorded. RESULTS Rabbits receiving a lidocaine CRI had significantly higher gastrointestinal motility, food intake, and fecal output and significantly lower glucose concentrations, compared with results for rabbits receiving buprenorphine. Rabbits receiving lidocaine also had a higher number of normal behaviors (eg, sprawling, traveling, and frolicking) after surgery, compared with behaviors such as crouching and sitting that were seen more commonly in rabbits receiving buprenorphine. Both groups had significant weight loss after surgery. Pain scores did not differ significantly between treatment groups. Significant decreases in heart rate and respiratory rate were observed on the day of surgery, co

--- seq111 p5 ahig:candidate:publication:5ebe225896c80b28fbfc02c6
Y:2019 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Influence of the physical exercise on decrease in the gastric emptying and alter appetite and food behavior in rats dexamethasone-treatment.
ABS: The chronic use of Dexamethasone (Dex) induced hyperglycemia and insulin resistance. On the other hand, physical exercise attenuates the symptoms induced by Dex in many physiological systems. However, the effect of the exercise on the changes in gastric motility induced by dexamethasone remains unknown. We hypothesized that low-intensity aerobic exercise modulates the metabolic effects induced by Dex-treatment by modifying the gastrointestinal function and feeding behavior in rats. Male rats were distributed into the following groups: Control (Ctrl), Dex (1.0 mg/kg, i.p.), Exercise (Ctrl + Exercise 5%) and (Dex1.0 + Exercise 5%). The exercise protocol was swimming for 5 consecutive days. We assessed the murinometric and nutritional indices, food intake, blood glucose by (ipGTT) and the gastric emptying rate of a liquid test meal were assessed in all rats. We observed a significant decrease (p < .05) in the gastric emptying in Dex1.0 group in relation to Ctrl group. The exercise prevented decrease in the gastric emptying (p < .05) in Dex1.0 + EX5% group when compared with Dex1.0 groups. The Dex1.0 group induced a significantly increase (p < .05) in glycaemia vs Ctrl group. The hyperglycemia was improving (p < .05) in the Dex1.0 + Ex5% compared with Dex1.0 groups. We observed a pos

--- seq112 p5 ahig:candidate:publication:7499413e2a23707faad003bb
Y:2021 T:['Abstract']
TITLE: Environmental Enrichment Potentiates Glucose-Induced Anorexia in Mice
ABS: Abstract The hypothalamus controls food intake and metabolism by integrating nutrient and hormonal signals from peripheral tissues. Both central and peripheral administration of glucose leads to a reduction in food intake in rodents. Similarly, administration of the adipocyte hormone leptin or the gastrointestinal hormone xenin reduces food intake. In contrast, impairments in hypothalamic signaling of these factors cause hyperphagia and obesity in rodents and humans. Environmental factors affect behavior including feeding behavior and energy metabolism in rodents and humans. Studies have found that environmental enrichment (EE), in which mice interact with complex sensory and motor stimulation, led to a significant reduction in adiposity and resistance to diet-induced obesity in mice. This effect is independent of energy expenditure and is associated with enhanced hypothalamic signaling, but the exact mechanism is unknown. We hypothesized that EE potentiates the feeding suppressing effects of anorectic signals. To address this hypothesis, 4-week-old male C57BL/6 mice were group housed (5/cage) under standard laboratory conditions or EE conditions with free access to regular rodent chow and feeding response to glucose, leptin and xenin was examined. EE cages were supplemented with

--- seq113 p5 ahig:candidate:publication:9d447dbc2d47193deff12910
Y:1999 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: The effects of timing and amount of forage and grain on exercise response in thoroughbred horses.
ABS: There is considerable debate among horsemen about how to feed horses before exercise. Should horses be fed or fasted before work and when should hay be fed relative to grain and/or exercise? Three experiments were conducted to evaluate if feeding hay with and without grain affects glycaemic and haematological responses in Thoroughbred (TB) horses at rest and during a simulated competition exercise test (CET) on a high-speed treadmill. In Experiment 1, 6 TB horses were fed hay at 3 different times relative to a grain meal. Time of feeding hay affected glycaemic response, plasma protein and water intake post grain feeding. During Experiment 2, 4 TB horses were used in a 4 x 4 Latin square design to determine whether feeding grain with or without hay prior to a CET would affect substrate utilisation and exercise. Feeding grain reduced free fatty acid (FFA) availability and increased blood glucose disappearance during exercise (P < 0.05). Feeding hay either along with grain or ad libitum the night before exercise resulted in reduced plasma volume (P < 0.05) and higher lactate production (P < 0.05) and heart rates (P < 0.05) during exercise. During Experiment 3, 4 TB horses were used in a 4 x 4 Latin square design experiment to determine whether feeding forage but no grain prior to CE

--- seq114 p5 ahig:candidate:publication:a383df7c405013ecac44d2a2
Y:2014 T:['Journal Article', 'Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't", 'research-article']
TITLE: Exercise prevents weight gain and alters the gut microbiota in a mouse model of high fat diet-induced obesity.
ABS: <h4>Background</h4>Diet-induced obesity (DIO) is a significant health concern which has been linked to structural and functional changes in the gut microbiota. Exercise (Ex) is effective in preventing obesity, but whether Ex alters the gut microbiota during development with high fat (HF) feeding is unknown.<h4>Objective</h4>Determine the effects of voluntary Ex on the gastrointestinal microbiota in LF-fed mice and in HF-DIO.<h4>Methods</h4>Male C57BL/6 littermates (5 weeks) were distributed equally into 4 groups: low fat (LF) sedentary (Sed) LF/Sed, LF/Ex, HF/Sed and HF/Ex. Mice were individually housed and LF/Ex and HF/Ex cages were equipped with a wheel and odometer to record Ex. Fecal samples were collected at baseline, 6 weeks and 12 weeks and used for bacterial DNA isolation. DNA was subjected both to quantitative PCR using primers specific to the 16S rRNA encoding genes for Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes and to sequencing for lower taxonomic identification using the Illumina MiSeq platform. Data were analyzed using a one or two-way ANOVA or Pearson correlation.<h4>Results</h4>HF diet resulted in significantly greater body weight and adiposity as well as decreased glucose tolerance that were prevented by voluntary Ex (p<0.05). Visualization of Unifrac distance data with princi

--- seq115 p5 ahig:candidate:publication:cbfde0bd48c2a24929034af3
Y:2026 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Sensory signaling mediates the systemic metabolic and neurological effects of epigallocatechin gallate.
ABS: <h4>Background</h4>Epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), the primary green tea flavanol, is renowned for its diverse health benefits; however, its low systemic bioavailability presents a long-standing paradox in nutritional science. We hypothesized that EGCG exerts its physiological effects via oral chemosensory signaling pathways, independent of intestinal absorption.<h4>Methods</h4>This study utilized wild-type and Skn-1a<sup>-/-</sup> mice (lacking bitter taste signaling) to evaluate acute metabolic responses. Furthermore, a chronic study using high-fat/high-sucrose diet (HFSD)-fed rats was conducted to investigate the long-term effects of EGCG on systemic metabolism, neuroinflammation, and adipose and skeletal muscle morphology.<h4>Results</h4>Acute oral administration of EGCG or the bitter tastant denatonium benzoate significantly attenuated glycemic excursions and elevated plasma glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) levels in wild-type mice. Crucially, these effects were completely abolished in Skn-1a<sup>-/-</sup> mice, identifying bitter taste receptors as essential mediators. In the chronic rat model, repeated oral EGCG treatment effectively reduced food intake, body weight gain, and adiposity. Beyond metabolic regulation, EGCG suppressed Iba-1 expression in the hippocampal dentat

--- seq116 p5 ahig:candidate:publication:4ded471ffbc8216e39f94265
Y:2006 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Route of carbohydrate administration affects early post exercise muscle glycogen storage in horses.
ABS: <h4>Reasons for performing study</h4>No studies in horses have examined the effect of route of carbohydrate (glucose) administration on the rate of muscle glycogen storage following glycogen-depleting exercise.<h4>Hypothesis</h4>Glucose delivery from the gastrointestinal tract limits the rate of muscle glycogen storage following glycogen-depleting exercise.<h4>Methods</h4>In a crossover design, 7 fit horses completed treadmill exercise (EX) on 3 occasions to deplete muscle glycogen by approximately 50%. After EX horses received: 1) i.v. glucose infusion (IV; 0.5 g/kg bwt/h for 6 h), 2) oral glucose boluses (OR; 1 g/kg bwt at 0, 2 and 4 h post EX) or 3) no glucose supplementation (CON). Blood samples for measurement of glucose and insulin concentrations were collected before EX and during the 6 h treatment period. Muscle biopsies for measurement of muscle glycogen content (GLY) and glycogen synthase (GS) activity were taken before and after exercise and at 3 and 6 h.<h4>Results</h4>Mean plasma glucose concentrations were significantly higher in IV and OR than in CON throughout treatment. The average serum insulin responses in IV and OR treatments were also significantly greater than in CON. After EX, GLY was not different among the 3 treatments. However, glycogen storage rates wer
