--- seq4551 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:0fced1beb0405c10409ecd4b
Y:2015 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: Energy intake adaptations to acute isoenergetic active video games and exercise are similar in obese adolescents.
ABS: <h4>Background/objectives</h4>Although the impact of passive video games (PVGs) on energy intake has been previously explored in lean adolescents, data are missing on the nutritional adaptations to passive and active video games (AVGs) in obese adolescents. It is also unknown whether isoenergetic AVGs and exercise (EX) differently affect food consumption in youth.<h4>Subjects/methods</h4>Nineteen obese adolescent boys (12-15 years old) had to complete four 1-hour sessions in a crossover manner: control (CON; sitting on a chair), PVG (boxing game on Xbox 360), AVG (boxing game on Xbox Kinect 360) and EX (cycling). The EX was calibrated to generate the same energy expenditure as the AVG session. Energy expenditure was measured using a K4b2 portable indirect calorimeter. Ad libitum food intake (buffet-style meal) and appetite sensations (visual analogue scales) were assessed after the sessions.<h4>Results</h4>As expected, mean energy expenditure was similar between AVG (370±4 kcal) and EX (358±3 kcal), both of which were significantly higher than PVG (125±7 kcal) and CON (98±5 kcal) (P<0.001). However, ad libitum food intake after the sessions was not significantly different between CON (1174±282 kcal), PVG (1124±281 kcal), AVG (1098±265 kcal) and EX (1091±290 kcal). Likewise, the e

--- seq4552 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:0f920f000dd37fbeebdc8a7f
Y:2015 T:['Comparative Study', 'Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't", 'research-article']
TITLE: Lifestyle Factors and Metabolic Syndrome among Workers: The Role of Interactions between Smoking and Alcohol to Nutrition and Exercise.
ABS: This study aimed to investigate (1) relations of smoking and alcohol to metabolic syndrome (MetS) and its components, with nutrition and exercise controlled; and (2) interactions between smoking/alcohol and nutrition/exercise on MetS. This cross-sectional study enrolled 4025 workers. Self-reported lifestyles, anthropometric values, blood pressure (BP), and biochemical determinations were obtained. Among males, smoking significantly increased the risk of low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), high triglyceride, abdominal obesity (AO), and MetS. Additionally, smoking showed significant interaction effects with nutrition on high BP, AO, and MetS; after further analysis, nutrition did not decrease above-mentioned risks for smokers. However, there was no significant interaction of smoking with exercise on any metabolic parameter. Alcohol increased the risk of AO, but decreased low HDL-C. It also showed an interaction effect with exercise on AO; after further analysis, exercise decreased AO risk for drinkers. Among females, alcohol significantly decreased the risk of high fasting blood glucose, but did not show significant interaction with nutrition/exercise on any metabolic parameter. In conclusion, in males, smoking retained significant associations with MetS and its compo

--- seq4553 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:d7d8fbefdf14c075beb5bf60
Y:2023 T:['Preprint']
TITLE: Do Nutrition Interventions Influence the Performance of Professional Soccer Players? A Systematic Review
ABS: <h4>Background: </h4> More than 270 million participants and 128,893 professional players play soccer. Research only weakly supports the impact of diets and supplements on the performance and recovery of professional soccer players. <h4>Methods:</h4> We conducted a comprehensive search in Pub-Med, Scopus, Web of Science, and clinical trial registers. Inclusion criteria focused on professional or semi-professional soccer players, nutrition or diet interventions, performance improvement outcomes, and randomized clinical trial study types. We assessed quality using the Risk of Bias 2 (RoB 2) tool. We identified 16 eligible articles involving 310 participants. No nutritional intervention during the recovery period effectively improved recovery. However, several perfor-mance-based interventions showed positive effects, such as tart cherry supplementation, raw pistachio nut kernels, bicarbonate and mineral ingestion, creatine supplementation, betaine consumption, symbiotic supplements, and a high carbohydrate diet. These interventions influenced various aspects of soccer performance, including endurance, speed, agility, strength, power, explosiveness, and anaerobic capacity. <h4>Conclusions:</h4> Specific strategies, such as solutions with bicarbonate and minerals, high carbohydrate di

--- seq4554 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:8881a2635605d4fe4a0156d8
Y:2018 T:['Case Reports', 'Journal Article', 'case-report']
TITLE: Changes in Pain and Nutritional Intake Modulate Ultra-Running Performance: A Case Report.
ABS: Ultra-endurance running provides numerous physiological, psychological, and nutritional challenges to the athlete and supporting practitioners. We describe the changes in physiological status, psychological condition, and nutritional intake over the course of two 100-mile running races, with differing outcomes: non-completion and completion. Athlete perception of pain, freshness, and motivation differed between events, independent of rating of perceived exertion. Our data suggest that the integration of multiple sensations (freshness, motivation, hunger, pain, and thirst) produce performance. Increases in carbohydrate feeding (+5 g·h<sup>-1</sup>) and protein intake (+0.3 g·kg<sup>-1</sup>) also likely contributed to successful completion of a 100-mile race, by reducing the fractional utilization of maximal oxygen uptake and satiating hunger, respectively. Nutritional data support the notion that the gut is a trainable, and critical organ with respect to ultra-endurance performance. Finally, we propose future research to investigate the rate at which peak feeding occurs throughout ultra-endurance events, as this may further serve to personalize sports nutrition strategies.

--- seq4555 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:abac32858dcd1922c9bd0e23
Y:2018 T:['Journal Article', 'research-article']
TITLE: Genetic Variations in Sweet Taste Receptor Gene Are Related to Chocolate Powder and Dietary Fiber Intake in Obese Children and Adolescents.
ABS: Childhood obesity is a major public health problem. It has a direct impact on the quality of life of children and adolescents, as well as on their future risk of developing chronic diseases. Dietary patterns rich in fats and sugars and lacking dietary fibers, vitamins, and minerals, as well as lack of physical exercise have been associated with the rise of obesity prevalence. However, factors that contribute to the preference for foods rich in these nutrients are not well established. Taste is recognized as an important predictor of food choices, and polymorphisms in taste-related genes may explain the variability of taste preference and food intake. The aim of this research is to evaluate the influence of polymorphisms of the sweet taste receptor gene <i>TAS1R2</i> on diet and metabolic profile in obese children and adolescents. A cross-sectional study with 513 obese children and adolescents and 135 normal-weight children was carried out. A molecular study was performed for the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) rs9701796 and rs35874116 of <i>TAS1R2</i>, and dietary intake, anthropometric parameters (weight, height, waist circumference, waist-to-height ratio (WHtR)), and metabolic profile (including fasting glucose, insulin, triglyceride, high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-chole

--- seq4556 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:ef85d985375ab5a1aea6732c
Y:2006 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Food restriction, performance, biochemical, psychological, and endocrine changes in judo athletes.
ABS: In order to test the hypothesis that dietary restriction may have a negative influence on physiological and psychological adaptation to a judo competition, we examined the effects of weight loss induced by restricting energy and fluid intake on the physiology, psychology, and physical performance of judo athletes. Twenty male judoka were randomly assigned to one of two groups (Group A: called diet, n = 10; height 174.8 +/- 1.9 cm, body weight 75.9 +/- 3.1 kg; they were asked to lose approximately 5 % of their body weight through self-determined means during the week before the competition; Group B: called control, n = 10; height 176.4 +/- 1.1 cm, body weight 73.3 +/- 6.3 kg maintained their body weight during the week before the competition). A battery of tests was performed during a baseline period (T1), on the morning of a simulated competition (T2) and 10 min after the end of the competition (T3). The test battery included assessment for body composition, performance tests, evaluation of mood, determination of metabolic and hormonal responses. Dietary data were collected using a 7-day diet record. The nutrient analysis indicated that all the athletes followed a low carbohydrate diet whatever the period of the investigation. For the Group A, the food restriction (- 4 MJ per day

--- seq4557 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:df330305aaf9ae15ed998a2e
Y:2016 T:['Clinical Trial', 'Comparative Study', 'Journal Article', 'research-article']
TITLE: Effect of energy restriction and physical exercise intervention on phenotypic flexibility as examined by transcriptomics analyses of mRNA from adipose tissue and whole body magnetic resonance imaging.
ABS: Overweight and obesity lead to changes in adipose tissue such as inflammation and reduced insulin sensitivity. The aim of this study was to assess how altered energy balance by reduced food intake or enhanced physical activity affect these processes. We studied sedentary subjects with overweight/obesity in two intervention studies, each lasting 12 weeks affecting energy balance either by energy restriction (~20% reduced intake of energy from food) in one group, or by enhanced energy expenditure due to physical exercise (combined endurance- and strength-training) in the other group. We monitored mRNA expression by microarray and mRNA sequencing from adipose tissue biopsies. We also measured several plasma parameters as well as fat distribution with magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy. Comparison of microarray and mRNA sequencing showed strong correlations, which were also confirmed using RT-PCR In the energy restricted subjects (body weight reduced by 5% during a 12 weeks intervention), there were clear signs of enhanced lipolysis as monitored by mRNA in adipose tissue as well as plasma concentration of free-fatty acids. This increase was strongly related to increased expression of markers for M1-like macrophages in adipose tissue. In the exercising subjects (glucose infus

--- seq4558 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:45f70077a636f29f3eb276bc
Y:2026 T:['Preprint']
TITLE: Viral communities in  <i>Metania</i>  sp. sponge microbiomes with possible effects on CO  <sub>2</sub>  fixation
ABS: <h4>Background</h4>  Brazilian sponges of the genus  Metania (phylum Porifera) are filter-feeding organisms from freshwater ecosystems. Here, we explored viral communities of  Metania sp., their functional role in the sponge and how they differ from those in surrounding water.  <h4>Results</h4>  We identified 1163 viral operational taxonomic units (vOTUs) from sponge tissue and adjacent water, with 555 vOTUs shared across habitats. Viral diversity was higher in sponges than in water, and community composition differed significantly (PERMANOVA,  p = 0.037). Sponge-associated vOTUs exhibited broad phylogenetic diversity, including deep-branching and unclassified clades, and several exclusively sponge-associated Caudoviricetes. Virus-host predictions revealed 173 interactions, largely with sponge-associated bacteria, supported by CRISPR spacer matches, variant formation in multiple vOTUs across sponge individuals, and a high prevalence of microbial defence systems, particularly restriction-modification, abortive infection, and CRISPR-Cas pathways. Functionally, viral communities carried diverse auxiliary viral genes, including those involved in amino acid and central carbon metabolism, carbohydrate degradation, fatty acid biosynthesis, stress responses (e.g., metacaspase-1), and sul

--- seq4559 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:d115682f8300351de5877003
Y:2025 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', 'research-article']
TITLE: Effects of 12 Weeks of Chromium, &lt;i&gt;Phyllanthus emblica&lt;/i&gt; Fruit Extract, and Shilajit Supplementation on Markers of Cardiometabolic Health, Fitness, and Weight Loss in Men and Women with Risk Factors to Metabolic Syndrome Initiating an Exercise and Diet Intervention: A Randomized Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial.
ABS: <b>Background:</b> Exercise and nutritional interventions are often recommended to help manage risk related to metabolic syndrome (MetSyn). The co-ingestion of <i>Phyllanthus emblica</i> (PE) with trivalent chromium (Cr) has been purported to improve the bioavailability of chromium and enhance endothelial function, reduce platelet aggregation, and help manage blood glucose as well as lipid levels. Shilajit (SJ) has been reported to have anti-inflammatory, adaptogenic, immunomodulatory, and lipid-lowering properties. This study evaluated whether dietary supplementation with Cr, PE, and SJ, or PE alone, during an exercise and diet intervention may help individuals with risk factors to MetSyn experience greater benefits. <b>Methods</b>: In total, 166 sedentary men and women with at least two markers of metabolic syndrome participated in a randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-arm, and repeated-measure intervention study, of which 109 completed the study (48.6 ± 10 yrs., 34.2 ± 6 kg/m<sup>2</sup>, 41.3 ± 7% fat). All volunteers participated in a 12-week exercise program (supervised resistance and endurance exercise 3 days/week with walking 10,000 steps/day on non-training days) and were instructed to reduce energy intake by -5 kcals/kg/d. Participants were matched by age, sex, BMI

--- seq4560 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:a47b638cfe24da2906299f17
Y:1980 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, U.S. Gov't, P.H.S."]
TITLE: A survey of patterns of nonpharmacologic care for hypertensive patients, including recommendations for their children.
ABS: To ascertain current approaches of physicians to nutritional-hygienic management of hypertensive patients and their children, a survey was done among a random sample of Chicago-area generalists, internists, and cardiologists. Thirteen items related to advice for patients; two for their children. Of 713 physicians holding M.D. degrees in the sample, 573 (80%) responded. For hypertensive patients, the great majority of physicians indicated that they advise weight loss, avoidance of salt use at table, no smoking, regular exercise, limitation of alcohol intake, and avoidance of stressful situations. Although 98% advised weight loss, a minority responded positively to reduction of carbohydrate and/or fat intake. Only 25% recommended limiting the salt use of children, and only 19% recommended taking the blood pressure of children of hypertensive patients. These data indicate that the majority of Chicago-area practitioners advocate nutritional-hygienic measures for their hypertensive patients. Only a minority, however, apparently advocate primary preventive approaches for the children of hypertensive patients.

--- seq4561 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:17720c0889c43809dc6ab51d
Y:2023 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: The moderating role of macronutrient intake in relation to body composition and genotoxicity: A study with gym users.
ABS: In a cross-sectional study of gymnasium users (both sexes, ages = 41.9 ± 14.8 years), we examined the moderating role of macronutrient intake in relation to body composition and genotoxicity. A questionnaire was administered to evaluate characteristics of the participants. To assess macronutrient consumption, we used 24-h food recalls on three non-consecutive days. Body composition (body fat percentage and muscle mass) was evaluated with a bioimpedance scale. Genotoxicity was assessed with the buccal micronucleus cytome assay. Multiple linear regression models were applied, adjusting for age; sex; tobacco and alcohol consumption; and (with regard to exercise habits) frequency, training time, intensity, and types. Micronucleus frequency was directly associated with body fat and inversely associated with muscle mass. Our study shows that carbohydrate and fat intakes affect body fat percentage and micronucleus frequency in gymnasium users.

--- seq4562 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:1c59037c4182610757f6270f
Y:2023 T:['Preprint']
TITLE: Advancements in Understanding and Treating NAFLD: A Comprehensive Review of Metabolic-Associated Fatty Liver Disease and Emerging Therapies
ABS: This paper provides a comprehensive review of the current understanding of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and its progression to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), focusing on key factors influencing its pathogenesis and emerging therapeutic strategies. The background highlights the growing prevalence of NAFLD and NASH, emphasizing their multifactorial nature. The methods section outlines the various contributors to NAFLD development, including genetic, dietary, and environmental factors. The results highlight the intricate interplay between these factors and their impact on hepatic lipid metabolism, inflammation, and insulin resistance. Genetic predisposition, dietary fat intake, and excessive fructose consumption are discussed as significant contributors to NAFLD progression. The conclusions emphasize the lack of a single therapeutic approach and underscore the need for combination strategies. Lifestyle interventions, particularly weight loss through diet and exercise, remain crucial, while pharmacological options like GLP-1 receptor agonists, obeticholic acid, lanifibranor, and resmetirom show promise but require further validation. Bariatric surgery and emerging endoscopic procedures offer potential in eligible patients. In sum, this review underscores the compl

--- seq4563 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:009787e4121a998e474e0045
Y:2025 T:['Journal Article', 'research-article']
TITLE: Nutritional Profiles and Factors Associated with the Intake of Certain Food Types in Patients Undergoing Maxillofacial Prosthetic Rehabilitation: A Cross-Sectional Study.
ABS: <b>Background:</b> Malnutrition is a significant concern for head and neck cancer (HNC) patients, as treatment often impairs mastication, causes dysphagia, and alters taste and smell, leading to reduced food intake and a diminished quality of life. Thus, this study aims to compare nutritional intake in HNC survivors using maxillofacial prostheses (MFPs) to healthy reference values and identify the factors influencing their dietary intake. <b>Methods:</b> The study included 56 patients treated for HNC undergoing rehabilitation with comfortable definitive dentures for over a month at the Maxillofacial Prosthetics Clinic of Tokyo Medical and Dental University Hospital. Data were gathered on the demographics, clinical characteristics, malnutrition risk using a malnutrition universal screening tool, dietary intake consistency via a functional oral intake scale, swallowing difficulties with eating assessment tool-10, and nutrient intake through a Brief-type Self-administered Dietary History Questionnaire. Patients' nutrient intakes were compared to the reference values from the BDHQ ad hoc computer algorithm based on the 2015 National Health and Nutrition Survey in Japan. Factors such as maximum mouth opening and the number of functional teeth were also assessed together with the afore

--- seq4564 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:2289a0673be436a53fbd1f6e
Y:2008 T:['Dissertation']
TITLE: The effect of dietary supplementation on fatigue and recovery after resistance exercise in females
ABS: Resistance exercise has been a popular form of muscle strength development for sport participants. This type of exercise activates a wide variety of physiological mechanisms involved with the exercising of muscle. The aim of this thesis was to investigate responses to dietary supplementation on muscular strength and biochemical indices to resistance exercise in female subjects. Firstly, to determine the reliability of the isometric test designed, and the number of trials required to-obtain reproducible measurements of maximum voluntary isometric force and rate of force development. Secondly, to establish heavy resistance exercise volume and intensity to produce a fatigue effect of a 40% reduction in measured force variables. Thirdly, to determine the optimal recovery period required to overcome the effect of fatigue responses to heavy resistance exercise after ingesting carbohydrate supplement (CHO). Finally, to determine the effect of creatine supplementation (Cr) on fatigue and recovery responses after resistance exercise in female subjects. Study one (1. A): The objective of study one was to quantify for female subjects, maximum voluntary isometric contractions (MVC) and rate of force development (RFD) ... (continues)

--- seq4565 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:914b01b7b32cf68fadeebadf
Y:2021 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't", 'research-article']
TITLE: Leucine-enriched whey protein supplementation, resistance-based exercise, and cardiometabolic health in older adults: a randomized controlled trial.
ABS: <h4>Background</h4>Increasing protein intake (above the Recommended Dietary Amount) alone or with resistance-based exercise is suggested to improve cardiometabolic health; however, randomized controlled trials (RCTs) are needed to confirm this.<h4>Methods</h4>The Liverpool Hope University-Sarcopenia Aging Trial (LHU-SAT) was a 16 week RCT (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02912130) of 100 community-dwelling older adults [mean age: 68.73 ± 5.80 years, body mass index: 27.06 ± 5.18 kg/m<sup>2</sup> (52% women)] who were randomized to four independent groups [Control (C), Exercise (E), Exercise + Protein (EP), Protein (P)]. E and EP completed supervised and progressive resistance-based exercise (resistance exercise: two times per week, functional circuit exercise: once per week), while EP and P were supplemented with a leucine-enriched whey protein drink (three times per day) based on individual body weight (0.50 g/kg/meal, 1.50 g/kg/day). Outcome measures including arterial stiffness (pulse wave velocity), fasting plasma/serum biomarkers [glucose/glycated haemoglobin, total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL), high-density lipoprotein, insulin, resistin, leptin, adiponectin, C-reactive protein, tumour necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-6, cystatin-C, & ferritin], insulin re

--- seq4566 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:86eca26971ff6f3a7a3036cd
Y:2010 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't", 'research-article']
TITLE: Changes in weight loss, body composition and cardiovascular disease risk after altering macronutrient distributions during a regular exercise program in obese women.
ABS: <h4>Background</h4>This study's purpose investigated the impact of different macronutrient distributions and varying caloric intakes along with regular exercise for metabolic and physiological changes related to weight loss.<h4>Methods</h4>One hundred forty-one sedentary, obese women (38.7 ± 8.0 yrs, 163.3 ± 6.9 cm, 93.2 ± 16.5 kg, 35.0 ± 6.2 kg•m(-2), 44.8 ± 4.2% fat) were randomized to either no diet + no exercise control group (CON) a no diet + exercise control (ND), or one of four diet + exercise groups (high-energy diet [HED], very low carbohydrate, high protein diet [VLCHP], low carbohydrate, moderate protein diet [LCMP] and high carbohydrate, low protein [HCLP]) in addition to beginning a 3x•week(-1) supervised resistance training program. After 0, 1, 10 and 14 weeks, all participants completed testing sessions which included anthropometric, body composition, energy expenditure, fasting blood samples, aerobic and muscular fitness assessments. Data were analyzed using repeated measures ANOVA with an alpha of 0.05 with LSD post-hoc analysis when appropriate.<h4>Results</h4>All dieting groups exhibited adequate compliance to their prescribed diet regimen as energy and macronutrient amounts and distributions were close to prescribed amounts. Those groups that followed a diet a

--- seq4567 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:fac088ce8883a065253a274a
Y:2021 T:['Journal Article', 'Randomized Controlled Trial', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't", 'research-article']
TITLE: Effects of indulgent food snacking, with and without exercise training, on body weight, fat mass, and cardiometabolic risk markers in overweight and obese men.
ABS: We hypothesized that exercise training would prevent gains in body weight and body fat, and worsening of cardiometabolic risk markers, during a 4-week period of indulgent food snacking in overweight/obese men. Twenty-eight physically inactive men (ages 19-47 yr) with body mass index (BMI) ≥25 kg/m<sup>2</sup> consumed 48 donuts (2/day, 6 days/week; ~14,500 kcal total) for 4 weeks while maintaining habitual diet. Men were randomly assigned to control (n = 9), moderate-intensity continuous training (MICT; n = 9), or high-intensity interval training (HIIT; n = 10). Exercise training occurred 4 days/week, ~250 kcal/session. Controls did not increase body weight, body fat, or visceral abdominal fat. This was partially explained by a decrease in self-reported habitual energy (-239 kcal/day, p = 0.05) and carbohydrate (-47 g/day; p = 0.02) intake. Large inter-individual variability in changes in body weight, fat, and fat-free mass was evident in all groups. Fasting blood pressure, and blood concentrations of glucose, insulin, and lipids were unchanged in all groups. Glucose incremental area under the curve during an oral glucose tolerance test was reduced by 25.6% in control (p = 0.001) and 32.8% in MICT (p = 0.01) groups. Flow-mediated dilation (FMD) was not changed in any group. VO<su

--- seq4568 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:1976b4d746fb00b2e7348ceb
Y:2018 T:['Journal Article', 'research-article']
TITLE: Self-Reported Periodization of Nutrition in Elite Female and Male Runners and Race Walkers.
ABS: Athletes should achieve event-specific physiological requirements through careful periodization of training, underpinned by individualized and targeted nutrition strategies. However, evidence of whether, and how, elite endurance athletes periodize nutrition is scarce. Accordingly, elite international female (<i>n</i> = 67) and male (<i>n</i> = 37) middle/long-distance athletes (IAAF score: 1129 ± 54, corresponds to 13:22.49 [males] and 15:17.93 [females] in the 5000 m) completed an online survey (February-May 2018) examining self-reported practices of dietary periodization for micro (within/between-days), meso (weeks/months) and macro (across the year) contexts. Data are shown as the percentage of all athletes practicing a given strategy followed by the % of athletes reporting various beliefs or practices within this strategy. Differences according to sex, event (middle-distance [800 m/1500 m] vs. track-distance [3000 m-10000 m] vs. road-distance [marathon/race walks]), caliber (high [major championship qualifier] vs. lower), and training volume (low/moderate/high male and female tertiles) were analyzed using Chi-square test or Kruskal-Wallis Test and indicated statistically different when <i>p</i> ≤ 0.05. Most athletes reported eating more on hard training days (92%) and focusin

--- seq4569 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:46eee6e83833b8565ad27f7f
Y:2014 T:['Journal Article', 'Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural', 'research-article']
TITLE: Sleep symptoms associated with intake of specific dietary nutrients.
ABS: Sleep symptoms are associated with weight gain and cardiometabolic disease. The potential role of diet has been largely unexplored. Data from the 2007-2008 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) were used (n = 4552) to determine which nutrients were associated with sleep symptoms in a nationally representative sample. Survey items assessed difficulty falling asleep, sleep maintenance difficulties, non-restorative sleep and daytime sleepiness. Analyses were adjusted for energy intake, other dietary factors, exercise, body mass index (BMI) and sociodemographics. Population-weighted, logistic regression, with backwards-stepwise selection, examined which nutrients were associated with sleep symptoms. Odds ratios (ORs) reflect the difference in odds of sleep symptoms associated with a doubling in nutrient. Nutrients that were associated independently with difficulty falling asleep included (in order): alpha-carotene (OR = 0.96), selenium (OR = 0.80), dodecanoic acid (OR = 0.91), calcium (OR = 0.83) and hexadecanoic acid (OR = 1.10). Nutrients that were associated independently with sleep maintenance difficulties included: salt (OR = 1.19), butanoic acid (0.81), carbohydrate (OR = 0.71), dodecanoic acid (OR = 0.90), vitamin D (OR = 0.84), lycopene (OR = 0.98), hexano

--- seq4570 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:77e5c8d0901d169706a07893
Y:2026 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Effects of Ramadan intermittent fasting on sleep, cognitive and physical performance in elite karate athletes: A within-subject repeated-measures study.
ABS: Ramadan intermittent fasting alters sleep-wake patterns, dietary intake, and daily routines, which may interact with circadian timing and fatigue to influence athletic performance. This study examined the effects of Ramadan fasting on sleep, dietary intake, cognitive performance, and anaerobic running performance across different times of day and fatigue states in elite karate athletes. Twelve elite male karate athletes completed a within-subject repeated-measures protocol before Ramadan, during the second week, and during the fourth week of Ramadan. Testing was conducted at 08:00, 17:00, and 22:00. Simple reaction time, multiple-choice reaction time, Stroop performance, and 5-m multiple shuttle run performance were assessed before and after a karate-specific aerobic fatigue protocol. Sleep and dietary intake were monitored throughout each period. Ramadan fasting significantly reduced total sleep time, sleep efficiency, total energy intake, carbohydrate intake, and fat intake, while increasing subjective sleepiness and fatigue. Cognitive and physical performance were significantly affected by Ramadan period, time of day, and fatigue state. The greatest deterioration occurred during the fourth week of Ramadan, particularly at 17:00, when both reaction-time performance and shuttle-

--- seq4572 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:c68143b4ebc1c4759f66518c
Y:1986 T:['Journal Article']
TITLE: Nutrition for athletes.
ABS: The nutrition needs of athletes can be best met by a well-balanced diet that satisfies recommended dietary allowances and calorie demands. Endurance athletes should maintain optimal glycogen stores through adequate carbohydrate ingestion. I encourage athletes anticipating dehydration to follow sound principles of fluid replacement. Nutrient supplements to a well-balanced diet are discouraged unless there is a clinical diagnosis of deficiency, since there is little evidence that such practice will improve performance.

--- seq4573 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:46f2c3703d293e7bee2ddce8
Y:2024 T:['Journal Article', 'research-article']
TITLE: Effect of weight loss program using prebiotics and probiotics on body composition, physique, and metabolic products: longitudinal intervention study.
ABS: The relationship between gut microbiota and obesity has recently been an important subject for research as the gut microbiota is thought to affect body homeostasis including body weight and composition, intervening with pro and prebiotics is an intelligent possible way for obesity management. To evaluate the effect of hypo caloric adequate fiber regimen with probiotic supplementation and physical exercise, whether it will have a good impact on health, body composition, and physique among obese Egyptian women or has no significant effect. The enrolled 58 women, in this longitudinal follow-up intervention study; followed a weight loss eating regimen (prebiotic), including a low-carbohydrate adequate-fiber adequate-protein dietary pattern with decreased energy intake. They additionally received daily probiotic supplements in the form of yogurt and were instructed to exercise regularly for 3 months. Anthropometric measurements, body composition, laboratory investigations, and microbiota analysis were obtained before and after the 3 months weight loss program. Statistically highly significant differences in the anthropometry, body composition parameters: and obesity-related biomarkers (Leptin, ALT, and AST) between the pre and post-follow-up measurements at the end of the study as the

--- seq4574 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:e6c0713a13b4d18a3a2ee4a6
Y:2008 T:['Comparative Study', 'Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't"]
TITLE: A case-control study on the dietary intake of mushrooms and breast cancer risk among Korean women.
ABS: To evaluate the association between dietary mushroom intake and breast cancer risk, a total of 362 women between the ages of 30 and 65 years who were histologically confirmed to have breast cancer were matched to controls by age (+/-2 years) and menopausal status. Mushroom intake was measured via a food frequency questionnaire that was administered by well-trained interviewers. The associations between the daily intake and the average consumption frequency of mushrooms with breast cancer risk were evaluated using matched data analysis. Both the daily intake (5th vs. 1st quintile, OR = 0.48, 95% CI = 0.30-0.78, p for trend 0.030) and the average consumption frequency of mushrooms (4th vs. 1st quartile, OR = 0.54, 95% CI = 0.35-0.82, p for trend 0.008) were inversely associated with breast cancer risk after adjustment for education, family history of breast cancer, regular exercise [>or=22.5 MET (metabolic equivalent)-hr/week], BMI (body mass index, Kg/m(2)), number of children and whether they are currently smoking, drinking or using multivitamin supplements. Further adjustments were made for energy-adjusted carbohydrate, soy protein, folate and vitamin E levels, which tended to attenuate these results. After a stratification was performed according to menopausal status, a strong 

--- seq4575 p183 ahig:candidate:publication:c5fbbe6971e6d8ec59f0d7fc
Y:2005 T:['Journal Article', "Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't", 'research-article']
TITLE: Relations of plasma high-sensitivity C-reactive protein to various cardiovascular risk factors.
ABS: This study was performed to evaluate the relation of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) with several cardiovascular risk factors such as age, blood pressure, smoking habit and serum lipids, body mass index, blood glucose, regular exercise, alcohol drinking, white blood cell counts in a cross-sectional survey. Plasma hsCRP was measured by immunoturbidimetry in 202 subjects, aged over 50 yr, who participated in health-check survey in a rural area of Jeollanamdo, Korea. Plasma hsCRP level was 1.9 +/- 3.0 mg/dL. There were significant associations between hsCRP levels and age, white blood cell counts, blood glucose, diastolic blood pressure, HDL-cholesterol, body mass index and smoking status. In stepwise multivariate regression analysis, white blood cell counts, age, blood glucose, smoking status and body mass index were independent correlates of hsCRP levels. In conclusion, plasma hsCRP levels were associated with several cardiovascular risk factors, and these data are compatible with the hypothesis that CRP levels may be a marker for preclinical cardiovascular disease. Further what we need now are prospective studies to evaluate the association of C-reactive protein concentrations with subsequent cardiac events.
